California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 9 
Based on the 2012 International Fire Code® 
California Building Standards Commission 
INTERNATIONAL 
CODE COUNCI~ 

2013 California Fire Code 
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9 

First Printing: July 2013 
ISBN: 978-1-60983-460-9 
Copyright© 2013 
Held by 


California Building Standards Commission 
2525 Natomas Park Drive, Suite 130 
Sacramento, CA 95833-2936 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This 2013 California Fire Code contains substantial copyrighted material from the 2012 Interna­tional Fire Code, which is a copyrighted work owned by the International Code Council, Inc. Without advance written permis­sion from the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed or transmitted in any form or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of example and not limitation, photocopying, or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system). For information on permission to copy material exceeding fair use, please contact: Publications, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60478. Phone 1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-7233). 
Trademarks: "International Code Council," the "International Code Council" logo and the "International Fire Code" are trade­marks of the International Code Council, Inc. 
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A. 

PREFACE 

This document is Part 9 of 12 parts of the otlicial triennial compilation and publication of the adoptions, amendments and repeal of administrative regulations to the California Code ofRegulations, Title 24, also referred to as the Califor­nia Building Standards Code. This part is known as the California Fire Code. 
The Cal(f'ornia Building Standards Code is published in its entirety every three years by order of the California legisla­ture, with supplements published in intervening years. The California legislature delegated authority to various state agencies, boards, commissions and departments to create building regulations to implement the State's statutes. These building regulations, or standards, have the same force of law, and take effect 180 days after their publication unless oth­erwise stipulated. The California Building Standards Code applies to occupancies in the State of California as anno­tated. 
A city, county, or city and county may establish more restrictive building standards reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological or topographical conditions. Findings of the local condition(s) and the adopted local building standard(s) must be filed with the California Building Standards Commission to become effective and may not be effec­tive sooner than the effective date of this edition of the California Building Standards Code. Local building standards that were adopted and applicable to previous editions of the California Building Standards Code do not apply to this edition without appropriate adoption and the required filing. 
Should you find publication (e.g., typographical) errors or inconsistencies in this code or wish to offer comments toward improving its format, please address your comments to: 
California Building Standards Commission 
2525 Natomas Park Drive, Suite 130 
Sacramento, CA 95833-2936 

Phone: (916) 263-0916 
Fax:(916)263-0959 

Web Page: www.bsc.ca.gov 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The 2013 Cal(f'ornia Building Standards Code (Code) was developed through the outstanding collaborative efforts of the Department of Housing and Community Development, the Division of State Architect, the Office of the State Fire Marshal, the Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development, the California Energy Commission, the California Department of Public Health, the California State Lands Commission, the Board of State and Community Corrections, and the California Building Standards Commission (Commission). 
This collaborative effort included the assistance of the Commission's Code Advisory Committees and many other vol­unteers who worked tirelessly to assist the Commission in the production of this Code. 
Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. 
Members ofthe California Building Standards Commission 

Secretary Anna Caballaro -Chair 
James Barthman -Vice-Chair 

Stephen Jensen Rose Conroy 
Randy Twist Sheila Lee 
Richard Sawhill Richard Sierra 
Kent Sasaki Steven Winkel 
Erick Mikiten 

Jim McGowan-Executive Director 
Michael L. Nearman -Deputy Executive Director 

For questions on California state agency amendments, please refer to the contact list on page v. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 


CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24 
California Agency Information Contact List 
Board of State and Community Corrections 
www.bscc.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 445-5073 Local Adult Jail Standards Local Juvenile Facility Standards 

California Building Standards Commission 
www.bsc.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 263-0916 
California Energy Commission www.energy.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . Energy Hotline (800) 772-3300 Building Efficiency Standards Appliance Efficiency Standards Compliance Manual/Forms 

California State Lands Commission 
www.slc.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(562) 499-6312 Marine Oil Terminals 

California State Library 
www.library.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 654-0266 
Department of Consumer Affairs: Acupuncture Board www.acupuncture.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 515-5200 Office Standards 
Board of Pharmacy 
www.pharmacy.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 574-7900 Pharmacy Standards 
Bureau of Barbering and Cosmetology 
www.barbercosmo.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (916) 952-5210 Barber and Beauty Shop, and College Standards 
Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair, 

Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation 
www.bearhfti.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 999-2041 Insulation Testing Standards 

Structural Pest Control Board 
www.pestboard.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(800) 737-8188 Structural Standards 

Veterinary Medical Board 
www.vmb.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 263-2610 Veterinary Hospital Standards 



Department of Food and Agriculture 
www.cdfa.ca.gov Meat & Poultry Packing Plant Standards (916) 654-0509 Dairy Standards (916) 654-0773 

Department of Housing and Community Development 
www.hcd.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 445-9471 Residential- Hotels, Motels, Apartments, Single-Family Dwellings; and Permanent Structures in Mobilehome & Special Occupancy Parks 
(916) 445-3338 
Factory-Built Housing, Manufactured Housing & Commercial Modular 
Mobilehome- Permits & Inspections Northern Region–(916) 255-2501 Southern Region–(951) 782-4420 
(916) 445-9471 Employee Housing Standards 


Department of Public Health 
www.dph.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 449-5661 Organized Camps Standards Public Swimming Pools Standards 

Division of the State Architect 
www.dgs.ca.gov/dsa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 445-8100 
Access Compliance 
Structural Safety 
Public Schools Standards Essential Services Building Standards Community College Standards 


State Historical Building Safety Board 
Alternative Building Standards 



Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development 
www.oshpd.ca.gov. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 440-8356 Hospital Standards Skilled Nursing Facility Standards & Clinic Standards Permits 

Office of the State Fire Marshal 
osfm.fire.ca.gov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(916) 445-8200 Code Development and Analysis Fire Safety Standards 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 



How to Distinguish Between Model Code Language
and 
California Amendments 

To distinguish between model code language and the incorporated California amendments, including exclusive California stan­dards, California amendments will appear in italics. 
[SFM] This is an example of a state agency acronym used to identify an adoption or amendment by the agency. The acronym will appear at California Amendments and in the Matrix Adoption Tables. Section 1.11 of Chapter 1, Division 1, of this code explains the application of State Fire Marshal adoptions to building occupancies or building features, the enforcement agency as designated by state law (may be the state adopting agency or local building or fire official), the authority in state law for the state agency to make the adoption, and the specific state law being implemented by the adoption. Only the Office of the State Fire Marshal makes adoptions in this code. 
Legend of Acronyms of Adopting State Agencies 
BSC California Building Standards Commission (see Section 1.2) BSCC Board of State and Community Corrections (see Section 1.3) SFM Office of the State Fire Marshal (see Section 1.11) HCD 1 Department of Housing and Community Development (see Section 1.8.2.1.1) HCD 2 Department of Housing and Community Development (see Section 1.8.2.1.3) HCD 1/AC Department of Housing and Community Development (see Section 1.8.2.1.2) DSA-AC Division of the State Architect-Access Compliance DSA-SS Division of the State Architect-Structural Safety DSA-SS/CC Division of the State Architect-Structural Safety/Community Colleges OSHPD 1 Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development OSHPD 2 Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development OSHPD 3 Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development OSHPD 4 Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development CSA Corrections Standards Authority DPH Department of Public Health AGR Department of Food and Agriculture CEC California Energy Commission CA Department of Consumer Affairs: 
Board of Barbering and Cosmetology Board of Examiners inVeterinary Medicine Board of Pharmacy Acupuncture Board Bureau of Home Furnishings Structural Pest Control Board 
SL State Librarian SLC State Lands Commission DWR Department of Water Resources 
The state agencies are available to answer questions about their adoptions. Contact information is provided on page iv of this code. To learn more about the use of this code refer to pages xvii and xviii. Training materials on the application and use of this code are available at the website of the California Building Standards Commission www.bsc.ca.gov. 
JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
BUFF 



HOW TO DETERMINE WHERE CHANGES HAVE BEEN MADE 
Symbols in the margins indicate where changes have been made or language has been deleted. 
II This symbol indicates that a change has been made to a California amendment. > This symbol indicates California deletion of model code or California language. This symbol indicated that a change has been made to International Code Council model code language. 
• The symbol indicates deletion of International Code Council model code language. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
California Matrix Adoption Tables 
Format of the California Matrix Adoption Tables 
The matrix adoption tables, examples of which follow, are non-regulatory aids intended to show the user which state agencies have adopted and/or amended given sections of the model code. An agency's statutory authority for certain occupancies or building applications determines which chapter or section may be adopted, repealed, amended or added. See Chapter 1, Division I, Sections 
1.2 through 1.14 for agency authority, building applications and enforcement responsibilities. 
The side headings identify the scope of state agencies' adoption as follows: 


Adopt the entire IFC chapter without state amendments. 
Ifthere is an "X" under a particular state agency's acronym on this row; this means that particular state agency has adopted the entire model code chapter without any state amendments. 
Example: 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
CHAPTER 2 -DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
Adopting agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DPH  AGR  DWR  CA  SL  SLC 
1  2  1-AC  AC  ss  SS/CC  1  2  3  4  
Adopt entire chapter  X  
Adopt entire chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  s  A  M  p  L  E  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
Chapter/Section  


Adopt the entire IFC chapter as amended, state-amended sections are listed below: 
If there is an "X" under a particular state agency's acronym on this row, it means that particular state agency has adopted the entire model code chapter; with state amendments. 
Each state-amended section that the agency has added to that particular chapter is listed. There will be an "X" in the column, by that particular section, under the agency's acronym, as well as an "X" by each section that the agency has adopted. 
Example: 
CHAPTER 2 -DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
HCD -~J----_I)_~A_______-,-_O_S,H_PD....,~--1 
:~d~op~t~~~~~-n-cy·~~-------~-+~B~S~C~S~F=M+-1~~2~1~-A~C~A~C~~SS~_~S~~~C~C+-~~2-r~3-+_4~~B~S~C~C~D~PH~~A~G~R~D~W~R~C~A~~S~L~S~L~C~ 
Adopt entire -~~§!pt_~r_____________ .. _________________________ -----r--------r---____________________________________ 
...--~---..---­
...................__ 


Adopt entire chapter as amended X 
~(=am~en~d~e~d~s~e~ct~io~n~s~lis~t~ed~be~l~ow~)~~~-+~-+~+--+~~~+~--r-----f~-+--+-~~~~~-~~~~~~~~-+~-+~~ 
Adopt only those sections that 
are listed below  S  A  M  P  L  E  
Chapter/Section  
L_2_o_2~--~~~~~~~~~~~x______.._____ ........... ....... .... ............... ........................................ ........... ............  .................................................... ________..___ ·--..-~ _  ..__l____,_  __j  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Adopt only those sections that are listed below: 
Ifthere is an "X" under a particular state agency's acronym on this row, it means that particular state agency is adopting only specific model code or state-amended sections within this chapter. There will be an "X" in the column under the agency's acronym, as well as an "X" by each section that the agency has adopted. 
Example: 
CHAPTER 2-DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
OSHPD 
Adopting agency 

HCD DSA 
BSC SFM 
2 
1-AC 
AC 
SS 
SS/CC 

2 3 4 BSCC DPH AGR DWR CA SL SLC 
·········---··---­
~

-----------------------t----r---+--+--­
~A~d~oLp~te~n~t_ire~ch~a~p~te~r--~---------~-+--r--t---~--r-~--+--+--+-~--~-+--+--~-+--~ 
Adopt entire chapter as 
amended (amended sections 
listed below) 
Adopt only those sections X 
A 
M 

p 
L E8 

~t~ha~t~a~re~lis~te~d~be~l~ow~---+--~-+--+-+--l--+--~----~--~--~-+--~-4--~--+--+-~--+-~ 
__Cc~h-~aLpt~e_r_1________~--+--~~-r--t--r--t-----------~-~--+--+--+---r---+--+--r--+-~ f-=2::...::0-=2----------+-----~-____ ... ___________ 
_§__A_ _J.tl:_+___:_P-+_L~___E 
----~-----··· 
-·-·-··-····· ··-·-··--­
-------~-­

~2_0_2________+--~-x-r--r---+------------l--9·=--+--=o-+__:_:N-+__:_:T·-+--+--+--+----i----+--r--+--i 203 X 
J03 X 
. ----·· ·--·····--·---·-··-·-----······--··---·--··-··--·-·-----· ___L___L____JL__L_____c_____L__l_____L__L_____l 
California Matrix Adoption Tables with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 
State Fire Marshal T-24 Column: 
Ifthere is an "X" in the T-24 column under SFM, refer to the California Matrix Adoption Tables explaining how to use the matrix 
adoption tables. 

State Fire Marshal T-19 Column: 
Ifthere is an "X" in the T-19 column under SFM, this means that the corresponding section was reprinted from the California Code of 
Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 into the California Fire Code for the code user's convenience. The corresponding Title-19 sec­
tions were listed in the matrix adoption tables in the order that they appear in the California Fire Code. The scope, applicability and 
appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division l has not changed. For information regarding the specific purpose and scope of CCR, 
Title 19, unless otherwise specified, refer to CCR, Title 19, Division l, Chapter 1, Subchapter 1, Article 1, Sections 1.00 through 1.14. 

Example: 
CHAPTER 3 -GENERAL PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE 

*The California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division I provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the cmTent CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remains the same. 

Maintenance 
The International Fire Code is kept up-to-date through the review of proposed changes submitted by code enforcing officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested par­ties. Proposed changes are carefully considered through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate. 
The contents of this work are subject to change both through the Code Development Cycles and the governmental body that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Code and Standard Development Department of the Interna­tional Code Council. 
While the development procedure of the International Fire Code assures the highest degree of care, ICC, its members and those participating in the development of this code do not accept any lia­bility resulting from compliance or noncompliance with the provisions because ICC and its founding members do not have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of this code. Only the governmental body that enacts the code into law has such authority. 

Code Development Committee Responsibilities (Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers) 
In each code development cycle, proposed changes to the code are considered at the Code Devel­opment Hearings by the International Fire Code Development Committee, whose action constitutes a recommendation to the voting membership for final action on the proposed change. Proposed changes to a code section that has a number beginning with a letter in brackets are considered by a different code development committee. For example, proposed changes to code sections that have 
[B] in front of them (e.g. [B] 607.2) are considered by the appropriate International Building Code Development Committee (IBC-Means of Egress) at the code development hearings. 
The content of sections in this code that begin with a letter designation is maintained by another code development committee in accordance with the following: 
[A] = 	Aministrative Code Committee 
[B] 	= International Building Code Development Committee (IBC-Fire Safety, General, Means of Egress or Structural); 
[EB] = 	International Existing Building Code Development Committee; 
[FG] = 	International Fuel Gas Code Development Committee; 
[M] = 	International Mechanical Code Development Committee; and 
[P] = 	International Plumbing Code Development Committee. 

Coordination between the International Building and Fire Codes 
Because the coordination of technical provisions is one of the benefits of adopting the ICC family of model codes, users will find the ICC codes to be a very flexible set of model documents. To accom­plish this flexibility some technical provisions are duplicated in some of the model code documents. While the International Codes are provided as a comprehensive set of model codes for the built envi­ronment, documents are occasionally adopted as a stand-alone regulation. When one of the model documents is adopted as the basis of a stand-alone code, that code should provide a complete pack­age of requirements with enforcement assigned to the entity for which the adoption is being made. 
The model codes can also be adopted as a family of complementary codes. When adopted together there should be no conflict of any of the technical provisions. When multiple model codes are adopted in a jurisdiction it is important for the adopting authority to evaluate the provisions in each code document and determine how and by which agency(ies) they will be enforced. It is important, therefore, to understand that where technical provisions are duplicated in multiple model documents that enforcement duties must be clearly assigned by the local adopting jurisdic­tion. ICC remains committed to providing state-of-the-art model code documents that, when adopted locally, will reduce the cost to government of code adoption and enforcement and protect the public health, safety and welfare. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 



Effective Use of the International Fire Code 

The International Fire Code® (IFC®) is a model code that regulates minimum fire safety requirements for new and existing buildings, facilities, storage and processes. The IFC addresses fire prevention, fire protection, life safety and safe storage and use of hazardous materials in new and existing build­ings, facilities and processes. The IFC provides a total approach of controlling hazards in all buildings and sites, regardless of the hazard being indoors or outdoors. 
The IFC is a design document. For example, before one constructs a building, the site must be provided with an adequate water supply for fire-fighting operations and a means of building access for emergency responders in the event of a medical emergency, fire or natural or technological disaster. Depending on the building's occupancy and uses, the IFC regulates the various hazards that may be housed within the building, including refrigeration systems, application of flammable fin­ishes, fueling of motor vehicles, high-piled combustible storage and the storage and use of hazard­ous materials. The IFC sets forth minimum requirements for these and other hazards and contains requirements for maintaining the life safety of building occupants, the protection of emergency responders, and to limit the damage to a building and its contents as the result of a fire, explosion or unauthorized hazardous material discharge. 
Arrangement and Format of the 2012 IFC 
Before applying the requirements of the IFC it is beneficial to understand its arrangement and for­mat. The IFC, like other codes published by the International Code Council, is arranged and orga­nized to follow sequential steps that generally occur during a plan review or inspection. The 2012 IFC has been reorganized into 7 Parts as illustrated in the tables below. Each Part represents a broad subject matter and includes the chapters that logically fit under the subject matter of each Part. It is also foreseeable that additional chapters will need to be added in the future as regulations for new processes or operations are developed. Accordingly, the reorganization was designed to accommo­date such future chapters by providing reserved (unused) chapters in several of the Parts. This will allow the subject matter parts to be conveniently and logically expanded without requiring a major renumbering of the IFC chapters. 
2012 REORGANIZATION OF THE IFC  
Parts and Chapters  Subject Matter  
Part 1-Chapters 1 and 2  Administrative and definitions  
Part II-Chapters 3 and 4  General safety provisions  
Part Ill-Chapters 5 through 11  Building and equipment design features  
Part Ill-Chapters 12 through 19  Reserved for future use  
Part IV-Chapters 20 through 36  Special occupancies and operations  
Part IV-Chapters 37 through 49  Reserved for future use  
Part V-Chapters 50 through 67  Hazardous materials  
Part V-Chapters 68 through 79  Reserved for future use  
Part VI-Chapter 80  Referenced standards  
Part VII -Appendices A through J  Adoptable and informational appendices  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2012 IFC CHAPTER REORGANIZATION  
CHAPTER NUMBER 2009  CHAPTER NUMBER 2012  CHAPTER TITLE  
1  1  Scope and Administration  
2  2  Definitions  
3  3  General Requirements  
4  4  Emergency Planning and Preparedness  
5  Fire Service Features  
6  6  Building Services and Systems  
7  7  Fire-Resistance-Rated Construction  
8  8  Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings  
9  9  Fire Protection Systems  
10  Means Of Egress  
11  20  Aviation Facilities  
12  21  Dry Cleaning  
13  22  Combustible Dust-Producing Operations  
14  33  Fire Safety during Construction and Demolition  
24  Flammable Finishes  
16  25  Fruit and Crop Ripening  
17  26  Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging  
18  27  Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities  
19  28  Lumber Yards and Woodworking Facilities  
29  Manufacture of Organic Coatings  
21  30  Industrial Ovens  
22  23  Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages  
23  32  High-Piled Combustible Storage  
24  31  Tents and Other Membrane Structures  
34  Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage  
26  35  Welding and Other Hot Work  
27  50  Hazardous Materials-General Provisions  
28  51  Aerosols  
29  52  Combustible Fibers  
53  Compressed Gases  
31  54  Corrosive Materials  
32  55  Cryogenic Fluids  
33  56  Explosives and Fireworks  
34  57  Flammable and Combustible Liquids  
58  Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids  
36  59  Flammable Solids  
37  60  Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials  
38  61  Liquefied Petroleum Gases  
39  62  Organic Peroxides  

(continued) 

2012 IFC CHAPTER REORGANIZATION-continued  
CHAPTER NUMBER 2009  CHAPTER NUMBER 2012  CHAPTER TITLE  
40  63  Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids  
41  64  Pyrophoric Materials  
42  65  Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics  
43  66  Unstable (Reactive) Materials  
44  67  Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids  
45  36  Marinas  
46  11  Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings  
47  80  Referenced Standards  
Appendix A-J  Appendix A-J  No changes in reorganization  

The IFC requirements for fire-resistive construction, interior finish, fire protection systems, means of egress and construction safeguards are directly correlated to the chapters containing par­allel requirements in the IBC, as follows: 
IFC Chapter  Subject  
7  Fire-resistance-rated construction  
8  Interior finish, decorative materials and furnishings  
9  Fire protection systems  
10  Means of egress  
33  Fire safety during constructin and demolition  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
The following is a chapter-by-chapter synopsis of the scope and intent of the provisions of the Inter­national Fire Code: 


PART 1-ADMINISTRATIVE 
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration. This chapter contains provisions for the application, enforcement and administration of subsequent requirements of the code. In addition to establish­ing the scope of the code, Chapter 1 identifies which buildings and structures come under its pur­view. Chapter 1 is largely concerned with maintaining "due process of law" in enforcing the regulations contained in the body of the code. Only through careful observation of the administra­tive provisions can the code official reasonably expect to demonstrate that "equal protection under the law" has been provided. 
Chapter 2 Definitions. All terms that are defined in the code are listed alphabetically in Chapter 
2. While a defined term may be used in one chapter or another; the meaning provided in Chapter 2 is applicable throughout the code. 
Where understanding of a term's definition is especially key to or necessary for understanding of a particular code provision, the term is shown in italics wherever it appears in the code. This is true only for those terms that have a meaning that is unique to the code. In other words, the generally understood meaning of a term or phrase might not be sufficient or consistent with the meaning pre­scribed by the code; therefore, it is essential that the code-defined meaning be known. 
Guidance regarding tense, gender and plurality of defined terms as well as guidance regarding terms not defined in this code are also provided. 
PART II-GENERAL SAFETY PROVISIONS 
Chapter 3 General Requirements. The open burning, ignition source, vacant building, miscella­neous storage, roof gardens and landscaped roofs and hazards to fire fighters requirements and precautions, among other general regulations, contained in this chapter are intended to improve premises safety for everyone, including construction workers, tenants, operations and maintenance personnel and emergency response personnel. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 302 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness. This chapter addresses the human con­tribution to life safety in buildings when a fire or other emergency occurs. The requirements for continuous training and scheduled fire, evacuation and lockdown drills can be as important as the required periodic inspections and maintenance of built-in fire protection features. The level of prep­aration by the occupants also improves the emergency responders' abilities during an emergency. The International Building Code (IBC) focuses on built-in fire protection features, such as automatic sprinkler systems, fire-resistance-rated construction and properly designed egress systems whereas this chapter fully addresses the human element. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 402 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
PART III-BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT DESIGN FEATURES 
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features. The requirements of this chapter apply to all buildings and occupancies and pertain to access roads; access to building openings and roofs; premises identifica­tion; key boxes; fire protection water supplies; fire command centers; fire department access to equipment and emergency responder radio coverage in buildings. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 502 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems. This chapter focuses on building systems and ser­vices as they relate to potential safety hazards and when and how they should be installed. This chapter brings together all building system-and service-related issues for convenience and provides a more systematic view of buildings. The following building services and systems are addressed: fuel-fired appliances (Section 603), emergency and standby power systems (Section 604), electrical equipment, wiring and hazards (Section 605), mechanical refrigeration (Section 606), elevator recall and maintenance (Section 607), stationary storage battery systems (Section 608) and commercial kitchen hoods (Section 609). As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 602 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 7 Fire-resistance-rated Construction. The maintenance of assemblies required to be fire-resistance rated is a key component in a passive fire protection philosophy. Chapter 7 sets forth requirements to maintain required fire-resistance ratings of building elements and limit fire spread. The required maintenance of fire-resistance-rated assemblies and opening protectives is described in Section 703 while Section 704 covers the enclosure requirements for shafts in existing buildings. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 702 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 8 Interior Finish., Decorative Materials and Furnishings. The overall purpose of Chapter 8 is to regulate interior finishes, decorative materials and furnishings in new and existing buildings so that they do not significantly add to or create fire hazards within buildings. The provi­sions tend to focus on occupancies with specific risk characteristics, such as vulnerability of occu­pants, density of occupants, lack of familiarity with the building and societal expectations of importance. This chapter is consistent with Chapter 8 of the International Building Code (IBC), which regulates the interior finishes of new buildings. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 802 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems. Chapter 9 prescribes the minimum requirements for active systems of fire protection equipment to perform the functions of detecting a fire, alerting the occu­pants or fire department of a fire emergency, controlling smoke and controlling or extinguishing the fire. Generally, the requirements are based on the occupancy, the height and the area of the build­ing, because these are the factors that most affect fire-fighting capabilities and the relative hazard of a specific building or portion thereof. This chapter parallels and is substantially duplicated in Chapter 9 of the International Building Code; however, this chapter also contains periodic testing criteria that are not contained in the IBC. In addition, the special fire protection system require­ments based on use and occupancy found in Chapter 4 of the IBC are duplicated in Chapter 9 of the IFC as a user convenience. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 902 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 10 Means of Egress. The general criteria set forth in Chapter 10 regulating the design of the means of egress are established as the primary method for protection of people in buildings by allowing timely relocation or evacuation of building occupants. Both prescriptive and perfor­mance language is utilized in this chapter to provide for a basic approach in the determination of a safe exiting system for all occupancies. It addresses all portions of the egress system (i.e., exit access, exits and exit discharge) and includes design requirements as well as provisions regulating individual components. The requirements detail the size, arrangement, number and protection of means of egress components. Functional and operational characteristics also are specified for the components that will permit their safe use without special knowledge or effort. The means of egress protection requirements work in coordination with other sections of the code, such as pro­tection of vertical openings (see Chapter 7), interior finish (see Chapter 8), fire suppression and detection systems (see Chapter 9) and numerous others, all having an impact on life safety. Sections 1002 through 1029 are duplicated text from Chapter 10 of the IBC; however, the IFC contains an additional Section 1030 on maintenance of the means of egress system in existing buildings. Retro­active minimum means of egress requirements for existing buildings are now found in Chapter 11 (which was formerly Chapter 46). As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 1002 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter con­tents. 
Chapter 11 Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings. Chapter 11 (which was for­merly Chapter 46) applies to existing buildings constructed prior to the adoption of the code and intends to provide a minimum degree of fire and life safety to persons occupying existing buildings by providing for alterations to such buildings that do not comply with the minimum requirements of 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
the International Building Code. Prior to the 2009 edition, its content existed in the IFC but in a ran­dom manner that was neither efficient nor user-friendly. In the 2007/2008 code development cycle, a code change (F294-07 /08) was approved that consolidated the retroactive elements of IFC/2006 Sections 607, 701, 704, 903, 905, 907 and 3406 (then 2506) and all of then-Section 1027 (Means of Egress for Existing Buildings) into a single chapter for easier and more efficient reference and appli­cation to existing buildings. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 1102 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapters 12 through 19. Reserved for future use. 
PART IV-SPECIAL OCCUPANCIES AND OPERATIONS 
Chapter 20 Aviation Facilities. Chapter 20 (which was formerly Chapter 11) specifies minimum requirements for the fire-safe operation of airports, heliports and helistops. The principal nonflight operational hazards associated with aviation involve fuel, facilities and operations. Therefore, safe use of flammable and combustible liquids during fueling and maintenance operations is empha­sized. Availability of portable Class B:C-rated fire extinguishers for prompt control or suppression of incipient fires is required. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2002 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 21 Dry Cleaning. The provisions of Chapter 21 (which was formerly Chapter 12) are intended to reduce hazards associated with use of flammable and combustible dry cleaning sol­vents. These materials, like all volatile organic chemicals, generate significant quantities of static electricity and are thus readily ignitable. Many flammable and nonflammable dry cleaning solvents also possess health hazards when involved in a fire. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2102 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 22 Combustible Dust-producing Operations. The requirements of Chapter 22 (which was formerly Chapter 13) seek to reduce the likelihood of dust explosions by managing the hazards of ignitable suspensions of combustible dusts associated with a variety of operations includ­ing woodworking, mining, food processing, agricultural commodity storage and handling and phar­maceutical manufacturing, among others. Ignition source control and good housekeeping practices in occupancies containing dust-producing operations are emphasized. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2202 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 23 Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 22) provides provisions that regulate the storage and dispensing of both liq­uid and gaseous motor fuels at public and private automotive, marine and aircraft motor fuel-dis­pensing facilities, fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facilities and repair garages. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2302 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 24 Flammable Finishes. Chapter 24 (which was formerly Chapter 15) requirements govern operations where flammable or combustible finishes are applied by spraying, dipping, pow­der coating or flow-coating processes. As with all operations involving flammable or combustible liquids and combustible dusts or vapors, controlling ignition sources and methods of reducing or controlling flammable vapors or combustible dusts at or near these operations are emphasized. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2402 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter ontents. 
Chapter 25 Fruit and Crop Ripening. Chapter 25 (which was formerly Chapter 16) provides guidance that is intended to reduce the likelihood of explosions resulting from improper use or han­dling of ethylene gas used for crop-ripening and coloring processes. This is accomplished by regulat­ing ethylene gas generation; storage and distribution systems and controlling ignition sources. Design and construction of facilities for this use are regulated by the International Building Code to reduce the impact of potential accidents on people and buildings. 
Chapter 26 Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 17) regulates fumigation and insecticidal fogging operations which use toxic pesticide chemicals to kill insects, rodents and other vermin. Fumigants and insecticidal fogging agents pose little hazard if properly applied; however, the inherent toxicity of all these agents and the potential flammability of some makes special precautions necessary when they are used. Requirements of this chapter are intended to protect both the public and fire fighters from hazards associated with these products. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2602 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 27 Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities. The requirements of this chapter (which was formerly Chapter 18) are intended to control hazards associated with the manufacture of elec­trical circuit boards or microchips, commonly called semiconductors. Though the finished product possesses no unusual hazards, materials commonly associated with semiconductor manufacturing are often quite hazardous and include flammable liquids, pyrophoric and flammable gases, toxic substances and corrosives. The requirements of this chapter are concerned with both life safety and property protection. However, the fire code official should recognize that the risk of extraordinary property damages is far more common than the risk of personal injuries from fire. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2702 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 28 Lumber Yards and Woodworking Facilities. Provisions of this chapter (which was formerly Chapter 19) are intended to prevent fires and explosions, facilitate fire control and reduce exposures to and from facilities storing, selling or processing wood and forest products, including sawdust, wood chips, shavings, bark mulch, shorts, finished planks, sheets, posts, poles, timber and raw logs and the hazard they represent once ignited. This chapter requires active and passive fire protection features to reduce on-and off-site exposures, limit fire size and development and facilitate fire fighting by employees and the fire service. As with other chapters of the Interna­tional Fire Code, Section 2802 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applica­ble to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 29 Manufacture of Organic Coatings. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 20) regulates materials and processes associated with the manufacture of paints as well as bituminous, asphaltic and other diverse compounds formulated to protect buildings, machines and objects from the effects of weather, corrosion and hostile environmental exposures. Paint for decorative, archi­tectural and industrial uses comprises the bulk of organic coating production. Painting and pro­cesses related to the manufacture of nonflammable and noncombustible or water-based products are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. The application of organic coatings is covered by Chapter 24. Elimination of ignition sources, maintenance of fire protection equipment and isolation or segregation of hazardous operations are emphasized. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 2902 contains a term that is defined in Chapter 2 and is applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 30 Industrial Ovens. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 21) addresses the fuel supply, ventilation, emergency shutdown equipment, fire protection and the operation and mainte­nance of industrial ovens, which are sometimes referred to as industrial heat enclosures or indus­trial furnaces. Compliance with this chapter is intended to reduce the likelihood of fires involving industrial ovens which are usually the result of the fuel in use or volatile vapors given off by the materials being heated or to manage the impact if a fire should occur. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 3002 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 31 Tents and Other Membrane Structures. The requirements in this chapter (which was formerly Chapter 24) are intended to protect temporary as well as permanent tents and air­supported and other membrane structures from fire by regulating structure location and access, anchorage, egress, heat-producing equipment, hazardous materials and operations, combustible vegetation, ignition sources, waste accumulation and requiring regular inspections and certifying continued compliance with fire safety regulations. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 3102 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Chapter 32 High-piled Combustible Storage. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 23) provides guidance for reasonable protection of life from hazards associated with the storage of combustible materials in closely packed piles or on pallets, in racks or on shelves where the top of storage is greater than 12 feet in height. It provides requirements for identifying various classes of commodities; general fire and life safety features including storage arrangements, smoke and heat venting, fire department access and housekeeping and maintenance requirements. The chapter attempts to define the potential fire severity and, in turn, determine fire and life safety protection measures needed to control, and in some cases suppress, a potential fire. This chapter does not cover miscellaneous combustible materials storage regulated in Section 315. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 3202 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition. Chapter 33 (which was for­merly Chapter 14) outlines general fire safety precautions for all structures and all occupancies dur­ing construction and demolition operations. In general, these requirements seek to maintain required levels of fire protection, limit fire spread, establish the appropriate operation of equip­ment and promote prompt response to fire emergencies. Features regulated include fire protection systems, fire fighter access to the site and building, means of egress, hazardous materials storage and use and temporary heating equipment and other ignition sources. With the 2012 reorganiza­tion, this chapter now correlates with Chapter 33 of the IBC. 
Chapter 34 Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage. The requirements of Chapter 34 (which was formerly Chapter 25) are intended to prevent or control fires and explosions associated with the remanufacture and storage of tires and tire byproducts. Additionally, the requirements are intended to minimize the impact of indoor and outdoor tire storage fires by regulating pile volume and location, segregating the various operations, providing for fire department access and a water supply and controlling ignition sources. 
Chapter 35 Welding and Other Hot Work. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 26) cov­ers requirements for safety in welding and other types of hot work by reducing the potential for fire ignitions that usually result in large losses. Several different types of hot work would fall under the requirements found in Chapter 35, including both gas and electric arc methods and any open-torch operations. Many of the activities of this chapter focus on the actions of the occupants. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 3502 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 36 Marinas. Chapter 36 (which was formerly Chapter 45) addresses the fire protection and prevention requirements for marinas. It was developed in response to the complications encountered by a number of fire departments responsible for the protection of marinas as well as fire loss history in marinas that lacked fire protection. Compliance with this chapter intends to establish safe practices in marina areas, provide an identification method for mooring spaces in the marina, provide fire fighters with safe operational areas and fire protection methods to extend hose lines in a safe manner. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 3602 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapters 37 through 49. Reserved for future use. 

PART V -HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials-General Provisions. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 27) contains the general requirements for all hazardous chemicals in all occupancies. Haz­ardous chemicals are defined as those that pose an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of operating or emergency personnel, the public and the environment if not properly controlled dur­ing handling, storage, manufacture, processing, packaging, use, disposal or transportation. The gen­eral provisions of this chapter are intended to be companion provisions with the specific requirements of Chapters 51 through 67 (which were formerly Chapters 28 through 44) regarding a given hazardous material. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5002 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 51 Aerosols. Chapter 51 (which was formerly Chapter 28) addresses the prevention, control and extinguishment of fires and explosions in facilities where retail aerosol products are dis­played or stored. It is concerned with both life safety and property protection from a fire; however, historically, aerosol product fires have caused property loss more frequently than loss of life. Requirements for storing aerosol products are dependent on the level of aerosol product, level of sprinkler protection, type of storage condition and quantity of aerosol products. As with other chap­ters of the International Fire Code, Section 5102 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 52 Combustible Fibers. Chapter 52 (which was formerly Chapter 29) establishes the requirements for storage and handling of combustible fibers, including animal, vegetable and syn­thetic fibers, whether woven into textiles, baled, packaged or loose. Operations involving combusti­ble fibers are typically associated with salvage, paper milling, recycling, cloth manufacturing, carpet and textile mills and agricultural operations, among others. The primary hazard associated with these operations is the abundance of materials and their ready ignitability. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5202 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 53 Compressed Gases. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 30) regulates the storage, use and handling of all flammable and nonflammable compressed gases, such as those that are used in medical facilities, air separation plants, industrial plants, agricultural equipment and similar occupancies. Standards for the design, construction and marking of compressed gas cylin­ders and pressure vessels are referenced. Compressed gases used in welding and cutting, cryogenic liquids and liquefied petroleum gases are also regulated under Chapters 35, 55 and 61, respectively. Compressed gases that are classified as hazardous materials are also regulated in Chapter 50, which includes general requirements. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5302 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 54 Corrosive Materials. Chapter 54 (which was formerly Chapter 31) addresses the hazards of corrosive materials that have a destructive effect on living tissues. Though corrosive gases exist, most corrosive materials are solid and classified as either acids or bases (alkalis). These materials may pose a wide range of hazards other than corrosivity, such as combustibility, reactivity or oxidizing hazards, and must conform to the requirements of the code with respect to all their known hazards. The focus of this chapter is on materials whose primary hazard is corrosivity; that is, the ability to destroy or irreparably damage living tissue on contact. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5402 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 55 Cryogenic Fluids. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 32) regulates the haz­ards associated with the storage, use and handling of cryogenic fluids through regulation of such things as pressure relief mechanisms and proper container storage. These hazards are in addition to the code requirements that address the other hazards of cryogenic fluids such as flammability and toxicity. These other characteristics are dealt with in Chapter 50 and other chapters, such as Chap­ter 58 dealing with flammable gases. Cryogens are hazardous because they are held at extremely low temperatures and high pressures. Many cryogenic fluids, however, are actually inert gases and would not be regulated elsewhere in the code. Cryogens are used for many applications but specifi­cally have had widespread use in the biomedical field and in space programs. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5502 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 33) pre­scribes minimum requirements for the safe manufacture, storage, handling and use of explosives, ammunition and blasting agents for commercial and industrial occupancies. These provisions are intended to protect the general public, emergency responders and individuals who handle explo­sives. Chapter 56 also regulates the manufacturing, retail sale, display and wholesale distribution of fireworks, establishing the requirements for obtaining approval to manufacture, store, sell, dis­charge or conduct a public display, and references national standards for regulations governing manufacture, storage and public displays. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Sec­tion 5602 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids. The requirements of this chapter (which was formerly Chapter 34) are intended to reduce the likelihood of fires involving the storage, han­dling, use or transportation of flammable and combustible liquids. Adherence to these practices may also limit damage in the event of an accidental fire involving these materials. These liquids are used for fuel, lubricants, cleaners, solvents, medicine and even drinking. The danger associated with flammable and combustible liquids is that the vapors from these liquids, when combined with air in their flammable range, will burn or explode at temperatures near normal living and working envi­ronment. The protection provided by the code is to prevent the flammable and combustible liquids from being ignited. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5702 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 58 Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids. Chapter 58 (which was formerly Chapter 35) sets requirements for the storage and use of flammable gases. For safety pur­poses, there is a limit on the quantities of flammable gas allowed per control area. Exceeding these limitations increases the possibility of damage to both property and individuals. The principal haz­ard posed by flammable gas is its ready ignitability, or even explosivity, when mixed with air in the proper proportions. Consequently, occupancies storing or handling large quantities of flammable gas are classified as Group H-2 (high hazard) by the International Building Code. As with other chap­ters of the International Fire Code, Section 5802 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 59 Flammable Solids. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 36) addresses general requirements for storage and handling of flammable solids, especially magnesium; however, it is important to note that several other solid materials, primarily metals including, but not limited to, such metals as titanium, zirconium, hafnium, calcium, zinc, sodium, lithium, potassium, sodium/ potassium alloys, uranium, thorium and plutonium which, under the right conditions, can be explo­sion hazards. Some of these metals are almost exclusively laboratory materials but because of where they are used, fire service personnel must be trained to handle emergency situations. Because ura­nium, thorium and plutonium are also radioactive materials, they present still more specialized prob­lems for fire service personnel. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 5902 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 60 Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials. The main purpose of this chapter (which was formerly Chapter 37) is to protect occupants, emergency responders and those in the immediate area of the building and facility from short-term, acute hazards associated with a release or general exposure to toxic and highly toxic materials. This chapter deals with all three states of toxic and highly toxic materials: solids, liquids and gases. The code does not address long-term exposure effects of these materials which are addressed by agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6002 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Gases. Chapter 61 (which was formerly Chapter 38) estab­lishes requirements for the safe handling, storing and use of LP-gas to reduce the possibility of dam­age to containers, accidental releases of LP-gas and exposure of flammable concentrations of LP-gas to ignition sources. LP-gas (notably Propane) is well known as a camping fuel for cooking, lighting, heating and refrigerating and also remains a popular standby fuel supply for auxiliary generators as well as being widely used as an alternative motor vehicle fuel. Its characteristic as a clean-burning fuel having resulted in the addition of propane dispensers to service stations throughout the coun­try. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6102 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 62 Organic Peroxides. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 39) addresses the haz­ards associated with the storage, handling and use of organic peroxides and intends to manage the fire and oxidation hazards of organic peroxides by preventing their uncontrolled release. These chemicals possess the characteristics of flammable or combustible liquids and are also strong oxidiz­ers. This unusual combination of properties requires special storage and handling precautions to pre­vent uncontrolled release, contamination, hazardous chemical reactions, fires or explosions. The requirements of this chapter pertain to industrial applications in which significant quantities of organic peroxides are stored or used; however, smaller quantities of organic peroxides still pose a significant hazard and, therefore, must be stored and used in accordance with the applicable provi­sions of this chapter and Chapter 50. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6202 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 63 Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids. Chapter 63 (which was formerly Chapter 40) addresses the hazards associated with solid, liquid, gaseous and cryogenic fluid oxidizing materials, including oxygen in home use, and establishes criteria for their safe storage and protection in indoor and outdoor storage facilities, minimizing the potential for uncontrolled releases and contact with fuel sources. Although oxidizers themselves do not burn, they pose unique fire hazards because of their ability to support combustion by breaking down and giving off oxygen. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6302 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 64 Pyrophoric Materials. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 41) regulates the hazards associated with pyrophoric materials, which are capable of spontaneously igniting in the air at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C). Many pyrophoric materials also pose severe flammabil­ity or reactivity hazards. This chapter addresses only the hazards associated with pyrophoric materi­als. Materials that pose multiple hazards must conform to the requirements of the code with respect to all hazards. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6402 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 65 Pyroxylin (Cellulose Nitrate) Plastics. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 42) addresses the significant hazards associated with pyroxylin (cellulose nitrate) plastics, which are the most dangerous and unstable of all plastic compounds. The chemically bound oxygen in their structure permits them to burn vigorously in the absence of atmospheric oxygen at a rate 15 times greater than comparable common combustibles. Strict compliance with the provisions of this chap­ter, along with proper housekeeping and storage arrangements, help to reduce the hazards associ­ated with pyroxylin (cellulose nitrate) plastics in a fire or other emergencies. 
Chapter 66 Unstable (Reactive) Materials. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 43) addresses the hazards of unstable (reactive) liquid and solid materials as well as unstable (reactive) compressed gases. In addition to their unstable reactivity, these materials may pose other hazards, such as toxicity, corrosivity, explosivity, flammability or oxidizing potential. This chapter, however, intends to address those materials whose primary hazard is unstable reactivity. Materials that pose multiple hazards must conform to the requirements of the code with respect to all hazards. Strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter, along with proper housekeeping and storage arrangements, help to reduce the exposure hazards associated with unstable (reactive) materials in a fire or other emergency. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6602 con­tains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapter 67 Water-reactive Solids and Liquids. This chapter (which was formerly Chapter 44) addresses the hazards associated with water-reactive materials that are solid or liquid at normal temperatures and pressures. In addition to their water reactivity, these materials may pose a wide range of other hazards, such as toxicity, flammability, corrosiveness or oxidizing potential. This chapter addresses only those materials whose primary hazard is water reactivity. Materials that pose multiple hazards must conform to the requirements of the code with respect to all hazards. Strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter, along with proper housekeeping and stor­age arrangements, helps to reduce the exposure hazards associated with water-reactive materials in a fire or other emergency. As with other chapters of the International Fire Code, Section 6702 contains a list of terms that are defined in Chapter 2 and are applicable to the chapter contents. 
Chapters 68 through 79. Reserved for future use. 


PART VI-REFERENCED STANDARDS 
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards. The code contains several references to standards that are used to regulate materials and methods of construction. Chapter 80 (which was formerly Chapter 47) contains a comprehensive list of all standards that are referenced in the code. The standards are part of the code to the extent of the reference to the standard (see Section 102.7). Compliance with the referenced standard is necessary for compliance with this code. By providing specifically adopted standards, the construction and installation requirements necessary for compliance with the code can be readily determined. The basis for code compliance is, therefore, established and available on an equal basis to the code official, contractor, designer and owner. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Chapter 80 is organized in a manner that makes it easy to locate specific standards. It lists all of the referenced standards, alphabetically, by acronym of the promulgating agency of the standard. Each agency's standards are then listed in either alphabetical or numeric order based upon the stan­dard identification. The list also contains the title of the standard; the edition (date) of the standard referenced; any addenda included as part of the ICC adoption; and the section or sections of this code that reference the standard. 


PART VII-APPENDICES 
Appendix A Board of Appeals. This appendix contains optional criteria that, when adopted, provides jurisdictions with detailed appeals, board member qualifications and administrative proce­dures to supplement the basic requirements found in Section 108 of the code. Note that the provi­sions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix B Fire-flow Requirements for Buildings. This appendix provides a tool for the use of jurisdictions in establishing a policy for determining fire-flow requirements in accordance with IFC Section 507.3. The determination of required fire flow is not an exact science, but having some level of information provides a consistent way of choosing the appropriate fire flow for buildings throughout a jurisdiction. The primary tool used in this appendix is a table which presents fire flow based on construction type and building area based on the correlation of the Insurance Services Office (ISO) method and the construction types used in the International Building Code. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix CFire Hydrant Locations and Distribution. This appendix focuses on the location and spacing of fire hydrants which is important to the success of fire-fighting operations. The diffi­culty with determining the spacing of fire hydrants is that every situation is unique and has unique challenges. Finding one methodology for determining hydrant spacing is difficult. This particular appendix gives one methodology based on the required fire flow that fire departments can work with to set a policy for hydrant distribution around new buildings and facilities in conjunction with IFC Section 507.5. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads. This appendix contains more detailed elements for use with the basic access requirements found in IFC Section 503 which gives some minimum crite­ria, such as a maximum length of 150 feet and a minimum width of 20 feet, but in many cases does not state specific criteria. This appendix, like Appendices B and C, is a tool for jurisdictions looking for guidance in establishing access requirements and includes criteria for multiple-family residential developments, large one-and two-family subdivisions, specific examples for various types of turn­arounds for fire department apparatus and parking regulatory signage. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordi­nance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix E Hazard Categories. This appendix contains guidance for designers, engineers, architects, code officials, plans reviewers and inspectors in the classifying of hazardous materials so that proposed designs can be evaluated intelligently and accurately. The descriptive materials and explanations of hazardous materials and how to report and evaluate them on a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) that are contained in this appendix are intended to be instructional as well as infor­mative. Note that this appendix is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption. 
Appendix F Hazard Ranking. The information in this appendix is intended to be a companion to the specific requirements of Chapters 51 through 67 which regulate the storage, handling and use of all hazardous materials classified as either physical or health hazards. These materials pose diverse hazards, including instability, reactivity, flammability, oxidizing potential or toxicity; there­fore, identifying them by hazard ranking is essential. This appendix lists the various hazardous mate­rials categories that are defined in the code, along with the NFPA 704 hazard ranking for each. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids-Weight and Volume Equivalents. This appendix gives the fire code official and design professional a ready reference tool for the conversion of the liquid weight and volume of cryogenic fluid to their corresponding volume of gas and vice versa and is a companion to the provisions of Chapter 55 of the code. Note that this appendix is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption. 
Appendix H Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) and Hazardous Materi­als Inventory Statement (HMIS) Instructions. This appendix is intended to assist businesses in establishing a Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) and Hazardous Materials Inven­tory Statement (HMIS) based on the classification and quantities of materials that would be found on site in storage and/or use. The sample forms and available Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) provide the basis for the evaluations. It is also a companion to IFC Sections 407.5 and 407.6 which provide the requirement that the HMIS and HMMP be submitted when required by the fire code official. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix I Fire Protection Systems-Noncompliant Conditions. The purpose of this IFC appendix, which was developed by the ICC Hazard Abatement in Existing Buildings Committee, is to provide the fire code official with a list of conditions that are readily identifiable by the inspector during the course of an inspection utilizing the International Fire Code. The specific conditions iden­tified in this appendix are primarily derived from applicable NFPA standards and pose a hazard to the proper operation of the respective systems. While these do not represent all of the conditions that pose a hazard or otherwise may impair the proper operation of fire protection systems, their identification in this adoptable appendix will provide a more direct path for enforcement by the fire code official. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifi­cally referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
Appendix JBuilding Information Sign. This new appendix replaces the emergency responder communications facilities provisions which previously occupied Appendix J and that have been relo­cated to Section 510 in the 2012 edition. It provides design, installation and maintenance require­ments for a Building Information Sign (BIS), a fire service tool to be utilized in the crucial, initial response of fire fighters to a structure fire. The BIS placard is designed to be utilized within the ini­tial response time frame of an incident to assist fire fighters in their tactical size-up of a situation as soon as possible after arrival on the scene of a fire emergency. The BIS design is in the shape of a fire service Maltese Cross symbol and includes five spaces (the four wings plus the centerpiece of the cross symbol) in which information is placed about the tactical considerations of construction type and hourly rating, fire protection systems, occupancy type, content hazards and special features which could affect tactical decisions and operations. Note that the provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance (see sample ordinance on page xxi). 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

LEGISLATION 

The International Codes are designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by legislative action. Jurisdictions wishing to adopt the 2013 California Fire Code as an enforceable set of regulations for the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from condi­tions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises should ensure that certain factual information is included in the adopting legislation at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate governmental body. The follow­ing sample adoption legislation addresses several key elements, including the information required for insertion into the code text. 

SAMPLE LEGISLATION FOR ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE ORDINANCE NO. ___ 
A[N] [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] of the [NAME OF JURISDICTION] adopting the 2012 edition of the International Fire Code, regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occu­pancy of buildings and premises in the [NAME OF JURISDICTION]; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; repealing [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] No. ___ of the [NAME OF JURISDICTION] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict therewith. 
The [GOVERNING BODY] of the [NAME OF JURISDICTION] does ordain as follows: 
Section 1. That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the [TITLE OF JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RECORDS] of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], being marked and designated as the California Fire Code, 2013 edition, including Appendix Chapters [FILL IN THE APPENDIX CHAPTERS BEING ADOPTED] (see California Fire Code Section 101.2.1, 2012 edi­tion), as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the [NAME OF JURISDICTION], in the State of [STATE NAME] regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fire Code on file in the office of the [NAME OF JURISDICTION] are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legisla­tion, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 2 of this ordinance. 
Section 2. That the following sections are hereby revised: 
Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION] 
Section 109.4. Insert: [OFFENSE, DOLLAR AMOUNT, NUMBER OF DAYS] 
Section 111.4. Insert: [DOLLAR AMOUNT IN TWO LOCATIONS] 
Section 3. That the geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2013 California Fire Code are hereby established as follows: 
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): [JURISDICTION TO SPECIFY] 
Section 5706.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohib­ited): [JURISDICTION TO SPECIFY] 
Section 5806.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): [JURISDICTION TO SPECIFY] 
Section 6104.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas): [JURISDICTION TO SPECIFY] 
Section 4. That [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] No. ___ of [NAME OF JURISDICTION] entitled [FILL IN HERE THE COM­PLETE TITLE OF THE LEGISLATION OR LAWS IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. 
Section 5. That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this legislation is, for any reason, held to be unconstitu­tional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The [GOVERNING BODY] hereby declares that it would have passed this law, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional. 
Section 6. That nothing in this legislation or in the Fire Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 4 of this law; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this legislation. 
Section 7. That the [JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RECORDS] is hereby ordered and directed to cause this legislation to be pub­lished. (An additional provision may be required to direct the number of times the legislation is to be published and to specify that it is to be in a newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.) 
Section 8. That this law and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby shall take effect and be in full force and effect [TIME PERIOD] from and after the date of its final passage and adoption. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION .... 1 
DIVISION I-CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION .•. 3 Section 
1.1 General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... 3 

1.11 Office of the State Fire Marshal. ................ 5 

DIVISION 11-ADMINISTRA TION ....•.........• 12 

PART I-GENERAL PROVISIONS.............•. 12 Section 101 General. .................................. 12 102 Applicability............................... 12 
PART 2-ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS•...•.. 13 
103 Department ofFire Prevention ................. 13 
104 General Authority and Responsibilities .......... 13 
105 Permits ................................... 15 
106 Inspections ................................ 22 
107 Maintenance ............................... 23 
108 Board of Appeals ........................... 23 
109 Violations ................................. 23 
110 Unsafe Buildings ........................... 24 
111 Stop Work Order ........................... 24 
112 Service Utilities ............................ 25 
113 Fees...................................... 25 

CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS .............••.•... 27 Section 201 General ................................... 29 202 General Definitions ......................... 29 
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ....... 65 
Section 
301 General ................................... 65 
302 Definitions ................................ 66 
303 Asphalt Kettles ............................. 66 
304 Combustible Waste Material .................. 66 
305 Ignition Sources ............................ 68 
306 Motion Picture Projection Rooms and Film ....... 68 
307 Open Burning, Recreational Fires and 
Portable Outdoor Fireplaces ................. 68 

308 Open Flames .............................. 69 
309 Powered Industrial Trucks and Equipment ....... 71 
310 Smoking.................................. 71 
311 Vacant Premises ............................ 72 
312 Vehicle Impact Protection .................... 73 
313 Fueled Equipment .......................... 73 
314 Indoor Displays ............................ 74 
315 General Storage ............................ 74 
316 Hazards to Fire Fighters ..................... 74 
317 Rooftop Gardens and Landscaped Roofs ......... 7 5 
318 Laundry Carts .............................. 76 

California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
Section 
3.14 Fire Hazard ............................ 65 3.19(a-g) Housekeeping .......................... 65 3.07(a) Clearances (Combustible Material) ......... 66 3.07(b) Clearances (Ground Clearance) ............ 67 3.19(b) and (c) Housekeeping .......................... 67 3.25(a) and (b) Open Flame Devices . .................... 69 3.32(a) and (b) Smoking (Group E Occupancies) . . . . . . . . . . . 72 3.32(d) Smoking (Group I and R Occupancies) ...... 72 3.32(c) Smoking (Group A Occupancies) ........... 72 California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section 3.05(b) Fire Department Access and Egress (Roofs) ........................ 75 
CHAPTER 4 EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS •............ 77 Section 401 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 402 Definitions ................................ 78 403 Public Assemblages and Events ................ 78 404 Fire Safety and Evacuation Plans .............. 78 405 Emergency Evacuation Drills ................. 81 406 Employee Training and Response Procedures ..... 82 407 Hazard Communication ...................... 82 408 Use and Occupancy-related Requirements ....... 83 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 5 FIRE SERVICE FEATURES .•...... 87 
Section 
501 General ................................... 87 
502 Definitions ................................ 87 
503 Fire Apparatus Access Roads .................. 88 
504 Access to Building Openings and Roofs ......... 89 
505 Premises Identification ....................... 89 
506 Key Boxes ................................ 90 
507 Fire Protection Water Supplies ................. 90 
508 Fire Command Center ....................... 91 
509 Fire Protection and Utility Equipment 
Identification and Access ................... 92 
510 Emergency Responder Radio Coverage .......... 92 

CHAPTER 6 BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS ................... 95 Section 601 General ................................... 95 602 Definitions ................................ 95 603 Fuel-fired Appliances ........................ 95 604 Emergency and Standby Power Systems ......... 98 605 Electrical Equipment, Wiring and Hazards ...... 101 606 Mechanical Refrigeration .................... 103 607 Elevator Operation, Maintenance and Fire Service Keys ........................ 105 608 Stationary Storage Battery Systems ............ 106 609 Commercial Kitchen Hoods .................. 108 610 Commercial Kitchen Cooking Oil Storage ...... 108 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section 3.17(a) and (b) Guards for Heating Appliances ............. 97 
CHAPTER 7 FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION .....•.......•.. 109 Section 701 General .................................. 109 702 Definitions ............................... 109 703 Fire-resistance-rated Construction ............. 109 704 Floor Openings and Shafts ................... 110 705 Exterior Walls ............................. 110 
CHAPTER 8 INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS .............. 111 Section 801 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113 802 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113 803 Interior Wall and Ceiling Finish and Trim in Existing Buildings ................. 113 804 Interior Wall and Ceiling Trim and Interior Floor Finish in New and Existing Buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 805 Upholstered Furniture and Mattresses in New and Exisiting Buildings ............... 117 806 Decorative Vegetation in New and Existing Buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119 807 Decorative Materials Other than Decorative Vegetation in New and Existing Buildings .... 120 808 Furnishings Other than Upholstered Furniture and Mattresses or Decorative Materials in New and Existing Buildings ..... 123 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section 1172 Purpose (Flame-retardant Chemicals, Fabrics and Materials) ................ 113 1173 Scope (Flame-retardant Chemicals, Fabrics and Materials) ................ 113 1174 Basis ................................ II3 119I Approved. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II3 1196 Flame-Retardant Chemical . .............. II3 120I Nonflammable Material ................. 113 1202 Place ofPublic Assemblage .............. II3 
3.08 Decorative Materials ................... 120 

3.08 	Decorative Materials (Other than Artificial Vegetation) ........ 12I 1273.I Fabrics for Interior Use ................. 12I I273.2 Fabrics for Exterior Use . ................ 12I 132I.I Fabric and Material Certification ......... 12I 1324 Job Labeling . ......................... 12I 1325 Labeling Required . ..................... I2I 1326 Retreatment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I22 1327 Installation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I22 3.I9(b) and (c) Housekeeping ......................... 123 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER 9 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS .... 125 Section 901 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131 902 Definitions ............................... 134 903 Automatic Sprinkler Systems ................. 136 904 Alternative Automatic Fire-extinguishing 
Systems................................ 144 
905 Standpipe Systems ......................... 148 
906 Portable Fire Extinguishers .................. 150 
907 Fire Alarm and Detection Systems ............. 158 
908 Emergency Alarm Systems .................. 175 
909 Smoke Control Systems ..................... 176 
910 Smoke and Heat Removal ................... 182 
911 Explosion Control. ......................... 184 
912 Fire Department Connections ................. 184 
913 Fire Pumps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 186 
914 Fire Protection Based on Special Detailed 

Requirements of Use and Occupancy ........ 186 


California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section General 
1.14 Maintenance .......................... 132 

3.24 Maintenance ofEquipment ............... 132 904(a) Required Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Frequencies . .......... 132 904( a)( 1) Required Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Frequencies . .......... 132 904(b) Required Inspection, Testing, 
and Maintenance Frequencies . .......... 132 904.2(a) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 132 904.2(b) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 132 904.2(h) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 132 904.2(i) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 132 904.1(a) Inspection Requirements ................. 133 904.2(g) Testing and Maintenance Requirements . .... 133 904.1(b) Inspection Requirements ................. 133 904.2(c) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 133 904.2(}) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 133 904.1(c) Inspection Requirements ................. 133 904.2(d) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 133 904.2(e) Testing and Maintenance Requirements . .... 134 904.2(/) Testing and Maintenance Requirements ..... 134 Definitions 902.4(b) "E" Definitions . ....................... 135 902.9(a) "!"Definitions ........................ 135 902.12(a) "M" Definitions ....................... 135 902.15(a) "P" Definitions ........................ 135 902.18(a) "S" Definitions ........................ 135 902.19(a) "T" Definitions ........................ 136 904 Required Inspection, Testing 
and Maintenance Frequencies .......... 144 904.2( a)2 Required Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Frequencies . ............. 144 904.7(a) through (c) Required Inspection, Testing and Maintenance Frequencies for Engineered and Pre-Engineered Fixed Extinguishing 
Systems . ............................ 144 Portable Fire Extinguishers 573(a) through (c) 
Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Commercial Cooking Operations ..... 147 3.29(a) through (d) Portable Fire Extinguishing Equipment ..... 151 565(a) Selection ofFire Extinguishers ............ 151 565.1(a) through (c) Classification ofHazards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152 565.2(a) through (e) Selection by Hazard .................... 152 566(a) through (f) 
Application for Specific Hazards .......... 152  
567.8  Installation Temperatures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153  
574.1  Frequency ofInspection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153  
574.2  Inspection Procedures . .................. 153  
567.1  Operating Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154  
574.3  Corrective Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154  
574.4  Nonrechargeable Extinguishers ........... 154  
575.10  Out ofService ......................... 154  
591.5  Replacement Extinguishers . .............. 154  

596.7(a) and (b) Removal ofTag ........................ 154 574.5(a) through (c) Inspection Record Keeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 567(a) through (k) Distribution ofFire Extinguishers ......... 154 568(a) through (e) Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class A Hazards .................. 155 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
569(a) through (c) Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class B Fires Other than for Fires in Flammable Liquids ofAppreciable Depth . . 155 570(a) through (e) Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class B Fires in Flammable Liquids of Appreciable Depth .................... 155 571(a) Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class C Hazards ................... 156 573(a) through (c) Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Commercial Cooking Operations ..... 157 
567.5 Physical Damage Protection .............. 157 

567.3 Installation . ........................... 157 

567.4 Brackets . ............................. 157 

567.6 Mounting ............................. 157 

567.2 Cabinets . ............................. 157 

567.7 Sealed Cabinets . ....................... 157 Fire Alarms 
3.12 Fire Alarm (Organized Camp) ................. 168 

CHAPTER 10 MEANS OF EGRESS..............191 Section 
1001 Administration ............................ 193 
1002 Definitions ............................... 194 
1003 General Means ofEgress .................... 194 
1004 Occupant Load ............................ 196 
1005 Means ofEgress Sizing ..................... 197 
1006 Means ofEgress Illumination ................. 198 
1007 Accessible Means ofEgress.................. 199 
1008 Doors, Gates and Turnstiles .................. 202 
1009 Stairways ................................ 209 
1010 Ramps ................................... 213 
1011 Exit Signs ................................ 215 
1012 Handrails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... 216 
1013 Guards .................................. 217 
1014 Exit Access ............................... 219 
1015 Exit and Exit Access Doorways ............... 219 
1016 Exit Access Travel Distance .................. 221 
1017 Aisles ................................... 222 
1018 Corridors ................................. 223 
1019 Egress Balconies ........................... 224 
1020 Exits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... 225 
1021 Number of Exits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 225 
1022 Interior Exit Stairways and Ramps ............. 226 

1023 Exit Passageways .......................... 228 
1024 Luminous Egress Path Markings .............. 229 
1025 Horizontal Exits ........................... 230 
1026 Exterior Exit Stairways and Ramps ............ 231 
1027 Exit Discharge ............................ 231 
1028 Assembly ................................ 232 
1029 Emergency Escape and Rescue ............... 238 
1030 Maintenance of the Means ofEgress........... 239 

California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section 4.1(a) Definitions (Burglar Bars) ............... 194 4.1(b) Definitions (Residential Dwelling) ......... 194 
3.27 Overcrowding ......................... 196 

3.30 Posting ofRoom Capacity . ............... 197 3.06(a) Bonding ofChairs and Spacing ofTables (Chairs) .................... 222 3.06(b) Bonding of Chairs and Spacing ofTables (Tables) . .................... 222 3.06(a) Bonding ofChairs and Spacing ofTables (Assembly) .................. 237 
4.2 Labeling (Burglar Bars) . ................ 238 4.3(a) through (c) Warning Information (Burglar Bars) . ...... 238 
4.4 	Warning Information Location (Burglar Bars) . ...................... 239 4.5( a) Contractor or Installer Disclosures (Burglar Bars) . ...................... 239 4.6(a) and (b) Prohibited Installations (Burglar Bars) ..... 239 3.11(a) through (d) Exits, Aisles, Ramps, Corridors and Passageways .................... 239 
CHAPTER 11 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS ........... 241 Section 1101 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241 1102 Definition ................................ 241 1103 Fire Safety Requirements for Existing Buildings ....................... 241 1104 Means of Egress for Existing Buildings ........ 249 1105 Requirements for Outdoor Operations .......... 254 1106 Group A Public Address System .............. 254 
CHAPTERS 12 through 19 RESERVED ........... 255 

CHAPTER 20 AVIATION FACILITIES .......... 257 
Section 
2001 General .................................. 257 
2002 Definitions ............................... 257 
2003 General Precautions ........................ 257 
2004 Aircraft Maintenance ....................... 258 
2005 Portable Fire Extinguishers .................. 258 
2006 Aircraft Fueling ........................... 258 
2007 Helistops and Heliports ..................... 263 

CHAPTER 21 DRY CLEANING .................265 
Section 
2101 General .................................. 265 
2102 Definitions ............................... 265 
2103 Classifications ............................ 265 
2104 General Requirements ...................... 266 
2105 Operating Requirements ..................... 266 
2106 Spotting and Pretreating ..................... 267 
2107 Dry Cleaning Systems ......................267 
2108 Fire Protection ............................ 267 

CHAPTER 22 COMBUSTIBLE DUST­PRODUCING OPERATIONS ...... 269 Section 220 1 General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ 269 2202 Definition ................................ 269 2203 Precautions ............................... 269 2204 Explosion Protection ....................... 269 
CHAPTER 23 MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES........ ...............271 Section 2301 General .................................. 271 2302 Definitions ............................... 271 2303 Location ofDispensing Devices ...............271 2304 Dispensing Operations ...................... 272 2305 Operational Requirements ................... 273 2306 Flammable and Combustible Liquid Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities .................. 274 2307 Liquefied Petroleum Gas Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities ................. 278 2308 Compressed Natural Gas Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities .................. 279 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2309 Hydrogen Motor Fuel-dispensing and Generation Facilities .................. 280 2310 Marine Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities ........ 282 2311 Repair Garages ............................ 283 
CHAPTER 24 FLAMMABLE FINISHES ......... 287 Section 240 1 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287 2402 Definitions ............................... 287 2403 Protection ofOperations .................... 287 2404 Spray Finishing ........................... 289 2405 Dipping Operations ........................ 293 2406 Powder Coating ........................... 294 2407 Electrostatic Apparatus ..................... 295 2408 Organic Peroxides and Dual-component Coatings ................. 296 2409 Indoor Manufacturing of Reinforced Plastics ....................... 296 2410 Floor Surfacing and Finishing Operations ....... 297 
CHAPTER 25 FRUIT AND CROP RIPENING . .... 299 
Section 
2501 General. ................................. 299 
2502 Definitions ............................... 299 
2503 Ethylene Gas ............................. 299 
2504 Sources ofIgnition......................... 299 
2505 Combustible Waste ........................ 299 
2506 Ethylene Generators ........................ 300 
2507 Warning Signs ............................ 300 

CHAPTER 26 FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING ....... 301 Section 2601 General. ................................. 301 2602 Definitions ............................... 301 2603 Fire Safety Requirements .................... 301 
CHAPTER27SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES ...... 303 
Section 
2701 General. ................................. 303 
2702 Definitions ............................... 303 
2703 General Safety Provisions ................... 303 
2704 Storage .................................. 308 
2705 Use and Handling .......................... 308 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

CHAPTER28 LUMBER YARDS AND WOODWORKING FACILITIES .... 313 
Section 2801 General .................................. 313 2802 Definitions ............................... 313 2803 General Requirements ...................... 313 2804 Fire Protection ............................ 314 2805 Plywood, Veneer and Composite Board Mills ............................. 314 2806 Log Storage Areas ......................... 314 2807 Storage ofWood Chips and Hogged Material Associated with Timber and Lumber Production Facilities ...................... 314 2808 Storage and Processing ofWood Chips, Hogged Material, Fines, Compost and Raw Product Associated with Yard Waste and Recycling Facilities ............. 315 2809 Exterior Storage of Finished Lumber Products . . ...................... 315 
CHAPTER 29 MANUFACTURE OF ORGANIC COATINGS ............ 317 
Section 
2901 General .................................. 317 
2902 Definition ................................ 317 
2903 General Precautions ........................ 317 
2904 Electrical Equipment and Protection ........... 318 
2905 Process Structures .......................... 318 
2906 Process Mills and Kettles . . . . . . .............. 318 
2907 Process Piping ............................ 319 
2908 Raw Materials in Process Areas ............... 319 
2909 Raw Materials and Finished Products .......... 319 

CHAPTER 30 INDUSTRIAL OVENS . ............ 321 
Section 
3001 General .................................. 321 
3002 Definitions ............................... 321 
3003 Location ................................. 321 
3004 Fuel Piping ............................... 321 
3005 Interlocks ................................ 322 
3006 Fire Protection ............................ 322 
3007 Operation and Maintenance .................. 322 

CHAPTER 31 TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES ...... 323 Section 3101 General .................................. 325 
3102 Definitions ............................... 325 3103 Temporary Tents and Membrane Structures .............................. 325 3104 Temporary and Permanent Tents and Membrane Structures ................. 328 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
Section 303(a) and (b) Scope ................................ 325 312 Parking ofVehicles . .................... 326 340 Existing Small Tents .................... 328 341 Existing Membrane Structures and Other (Large) Existing Tents . ....... 328 321 Abatement ofFire or Panic Hazards ....... 328 315(a) Flame Resistance Standards . ............. 328 332( a) Flame Resistance ...................... 328 334 Requirements Pertaining to All Tents . ...... 328 335(a) and (b) Labeling ofTents . ...................... 328 315(d) Flame Resistance Standards . ............. 329 315(b) Flame Resistance Standards . ............. 329 326(b) Hazard Abatement . ..................... 329 316 Smoking Prohibited . .................... 329 317 Fireworks and Open Flames .............. 330 319(a) through (c) Fire Extinguishers and Other Fire Protection Equipment . ................ 330 319(d) and (e) Fire Extinguishers and Other Fire Protection Equipment . ................ 330 325 Liquefied Petroleum Gas . ................ 331 324(a) and (b) Flammable and Combustible Liquids . ...... 331 320 Fire Safety Personnel ................... 322 326(a) Hazard Abatement (Vegetation) ........... 322 326(c) Hazard Abatement (Combustible Waste) .... 322 
CHAPTER 32 HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE ....... 333 Section 3201 General. ................................. 333 3202 Definitions ............................... 333 3203 Commodity Classification ................... 333 3204 Designation of High-piled Storage Areas ....... 337 3205 Housekeeping and Maintenance .............. 337 3206 General Fire Protection and Life Safety Features ...................... 337 
3207 Solid-piled and Shelf Storage ................. 339 
3208 Rack Storage .............................. 340 
3209 Automated Storage ......................... 341 
3210 Specialty Storage .......................... 341 

CHAPTER 33 FIRE SAFETY DURING 
CONSTRUCTION AND 
DEMOLITION ............••..... 343 
Section 
3301 General .................................. 343 
3302 Definitions ............................... 343 
3303 Temporary Heating Equipment ............... 343 
3304 Precautions Against Fire .................... 343 
3305 Flammable and Combustible Liquids ........... 344 
3306 Flammable Gases .......................... 344 
3307 Explosive Materials ........................ 344 
3308 Owner's Responsibility for Fire Protection ...... 344 
3309 Fire Reporting ............................. 344 
3310 Access for Fire Fighting ..................... 344 
3311 Means of Egress ........................... 345 
3312 Water Supply for Fire Protection .............. 345 
3313 Standpipes ............................... 345 
3314 Automatic Sprinkler System ................. 345 
3315 Portable Fire Extinguishers .................. 345 
3316 Motorized Construction Equipment. ........... 345 
3317 Safeguarding Roofing Operations ............. 345 

CHAPTER 34 TIRE REBUILDING AND TIRE STORAGE.•.•........• 347 Section 3401 General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... 34 7 3402 Definitions ............................... 347 3403 Tire Rebuilding ............................ 347 3404 Precautions Against Fire .................... 348 3405 Outdoor Storage ........................... 348 3406 Fire Department Access ..................... 349 3407 Fencing .................................. 349 3408 Fire Protection ............................ 349 3409 Indoor Storage Arrangement ................. 349 
CHAPTER 35 WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK ............. 351 Section 3501 General .................................. 351 3502 Definitions ............................... 351 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

3503 General Requirements ...................... 351 
3504 Fire Safety Requirements .................... 352 
3505 Gas Welding and Cutting .................... 353 
3506 Electric Arc Hot Work ...................... 353 
3507 Calcium Carbide Systems ................... 353 
3508 Acetylene Generators ....................... 354 
3509 Piping Manifolds and Hose Systems for 
Fuel Gases and Oxygen ................... 354 

CHAPTER 36 MARINAS .......•............... 355 
Section 
3601 Scope ................................... 355 
3602 Definitions ............................... 355 
3603 General Precautions ........................ 355 
3604 Fire Protection Equipment ................... 355 
3605 Marine Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities ........ 356 

CHAPTERS 37 through 47 RESERVED ........... 357 

CHAPTER 48 MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCTION STUDIO SOUND STAGES, APPROVED PRODUCTION FACILITIES AND PRODCUTION LOCATIONS .................... 359 Section 4801 General. ................................. 359 4802 Occupancy Classification .................... 359 4803 Required Permits .......................... 359 4804 General Requirements ...................... 360 4805 Fire-extinguishing Systems .................. 360 4806 Fire Detection Equipment ................... 360 4807 Fire Safety Officers ........................ 360 4808 Electrical Requirements ..................... 360 4809 Mechanical Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361 4810 Design Requirements ....................... 361 4811 Production Locations ....................... 361 
CHAPTER 49 REQUIREMENTS FOR WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE FIRE AREAS .................... 363 Section 4901 General. ................................. 363 4902 Definitions ............................... 363 4903 Reserved................................. 364 4904 Fire Hazard Severity Zones .................. 364 4905 Wildfire Protection Building Construction ...... 364 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
4906 Hazardous Vegetation and Fuel Management .... 364 4970 Defensible Space .......................... 364 
CHAPTER 50 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS­GENERAL PROVISIONS .•........365 Section 5001 General .................................. 365 5002 Definitions ............................... 368 5003 General Requirements ...................... 369 5004 Storage .................................. 383 5005 Use, Dispensing and Handling ................ 386 
CHAPTER 51 AEROSOLS..............•...•...391 
Section 
5101 General .................................. 391 
5102 Definitions ............................... 391 
5103 Classification of Aerosol Products ............. 391 
5104 Inside Storage of Aerosol Products ............ 391 
5105 Outside Storage ........................... 394 
5106 Retail Display ............................. 394 
5107 Manufacturing Facilities ..................... 395 

CHAPTER 52 COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS .•........397 
Section 
5201 General .................................. 397 
5202 Definitions ............................... 397 
5203 General Precautions ........................ 397 
5204 Loose Fiber Storage ........................ 397 
5205 Baled Storage ............................. 398 

CHAPTER 53 COMPRESSED GASES ...........•399 
Section 
5301 General .................................. 399 
5302 Definitions ............................... 400 
5303 General Requirements ...................... 400 
5304 Storage of Compressed Gases ................ 403 
5305 Use and Handling ofCompressed Gases ........ 403 
5306 Medical Gas Systems ...................... 404 
5307 Compressed Gases Not Otherwise Regulated .... 405 

California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
Section 
3.18(a) and (b) 

Hazardous Areas .......................... 399 

CHAPTER 54 CORROSIVE MATERIALS ........ 407 Section 5401 General. ................................. 407 5402 Definition ................................ 407 5403 General Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407 5404 Storage .................................. 407 5405 Use ..................................... 408 
CHAPTER 55 CRYOGENIC FLUIDS ............ 409 
Section 
5501 General. ................................. 409 
5502 Definitions ............................... 409 
5503 General Requirements ...................... 409 
5504 Storage .................................. 411 
5505 Use and Handling .......................... 412 

CHAPTER 56 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS ............... 415 Section 5601 General. ................................. 415 5608 Fireworks Display ......................... 415 
CHAPTER 57 FLAMMABLE AND 
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS ........ 417 
Section 
5701 General. ................................. 417 
5702 Definitions ............................... 418 
5703 General Requirements ...................... 418 
5704 Storage .................................. 422 
5705 Dispensing, Use, Mixing and Handling ......... 442 
5706 Special Operations ......................... 448 

California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Section 
3.15 Flammable and Combustible Liquids .......... 417 

CHAPTER 58 FLAMMABLE GASES AND FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS ............ 459 Section 5801 General. ................................. 459 5802 Definitions ............................... 459 5803 General Requirements ...................... 459 5804 Storage .................................. 460 5805 Use ..................................... 460 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

5806 Flammable Cryogenic Fluids ................. 460 
5807 Metal Hydride Storage Systems ............... 461 

CHAPTER 59 FLAMMABLE SOLIDS .•......... 463 
Section 
5901 General .................................. 463 
5902 Definitions ............................... 463 
5903 General Requirements ...................... 463 
5904 Storage .................................. 463 
5905 Use ..................................... 463 
5906 Magnesium ............................... 464 

CHAPTER 60 HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS ............. 467 Section 6001 General .................................. 467 6002 Definitions ............................... 467 6003 Highly Toxic and Toxic Solids and Liquids ..... 467 6004 Highly Toxic and Toxic Compressed Gases ..... 468 6005 Ozone Gas Generators ...................... 473 
CHAPTER 61 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES............• 475 Section 6101 General .................................. 475 6102 Definitions ............................... 475 6103 Installation ofEquipment. ................... 475 6104 Location of LP-gas Containers ................ 476 6105 Prohibited Use ofLP-gas .................... 477 6106 Dispensing and Overfilling .................. 477 6107 Safety Precautions and Devices ............... 478 6108 Fire Protection ............................ 478 6109 Storage of Portable LP-gas Containers Awaiting Use or Resale ................... 478 6110 LP-gas Containers Not in Service ............. 480 6111 Parking and Garaging of480 LP-gas Tank Vehicles .................... 480 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
Section 
3.22(a) and (c) 

Liquefied Petroleum Gas .................... 475 3.22(b) 
CHAPTER 62 ORGANIC PEROXIDES .....•.... 481 Section 6201 General. ................................. 481 6202 Definition ................................ 481 6203 General Requirements ...................... 481 6204 Storage .................................. 482 6205 Use ..................................... 483 
CHAPTER 63 OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS .......•.... 485 Section 6301 General. ................................. 485 6302 Definitions ............................... 485 6303 General Requirements ...................... 485 6304 Storage .................................. 486 6305 Use ..................................... 488 6306 Liquid Oxygen in Home Health Care .......... 488 
CHAPTER 64 PYROPHORIC MATERIALS .•..•. 491 Section 6401 General. ................................. 491 6402 Definition ................................ 491 6403 General Requirements ...................... 491 6404 Storage .................................. 491 6405 Use ..................................... 492 
CHAPTER65PYROXYLIN(CELLULOSE NITRATE) PLASTICS ..••.......• 493 Section 6501 General. ................................. 493 6502 Definitions ............................... 493 6503 General Requirements ...................... 493 6504 Storage and Handling ....................... 493 
CHAPTER 66 UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIALS .......• 495 Section 6601 General. ................................. 495 6602 Definition ................................ 495 6603 General Requirements ...................... 495 6604 Storage .................................. 496 
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (Schoolyards) ........ 476 


6605 Use ..................................... 496 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 67 WATER-REACTIVE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS ........... 497 Section 6701 General .................................. 497 6702 Definition ................................ 497 6703 General Requirements ...................... 497 6704 Storage .................................. 497 6705 Use ..................................... 498 
CHAPTERS 68 through 79 RESERVED •.......... 499 

Part VI-Referenced Standards ................... 503 

CHAPTER 80 REFERENCED STANDARDS ...... 501 
Part VII-Appendices ........................... 531 

APPENDIX CHAPTER 4 ....................... 527 

California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
Section 
425 Special Provisions For Licensed 24-hour Care Facilities InA Group R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4 [SFM] ... 527 426 Special Provisions For Licensed 24-hour Care Facilities In Groups I-1, R-3.1 And R-4 ......... 530 
3.26 	Operators Statement-Group I, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 Occupancies ........................... 527 
APPENDIX A BOARD OF APPEALS •....••..... 531 Section A101 General. ................................. 531 
APPENDIX B FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS.•....•.......... 533 Section B101 General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 533 B 102 Definitions ............................... 533 B 103 Modifications ............................. 533 B104 Fire-flow Calculation Area ................... 533 B 105 Fire-flow Requirements for Buildings .......... 533 B 106 Referenced Standards ....................... 535 
APPENDIX BB FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS ............... 537 Section BB101 General ................................ 537 BB102 Definitions .............................. 537 
BB 103 Modifications ........................... 537 
BB 104 Fire Area ............................... 537 
BB 105 Fire-flow Requirements For Buildings ........ 537 

APPENDIX C FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION.........••.. 539 Section C101 General. ................................. 539 C102 Location ................................. 539 C103 Number of Fire Hydrants .................... 539 C104 Consideration of Existing Fire Hydrants ........ 539 C105 Distribution of Fire Hydrants ................. 539 
APPENDIX CC FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION ................ 541 Section CC101 Scope .................................. 541 CC102 Location ................................ 541 CC103 Number of Fire Hydrants ................... 541 CC104 Consideration of Existing Fire Hydrants ....... 541 CCI05 Distribution of Fire Hydrants ............... 541 
APPENDIX D FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS ................. 543 Section D101 General. ................................. 543 D102 Required Access ........................... 543 D103 Minimum Specifications .................... 543 D104 Commercial and Industrial Developments ....... 544 D105 Aerial Fire Apparatus Access Roads ........... 545 D106 Multiple-family Residential Developments ...... 545 D107 One-or Two-family Residential545 Developments .......................... 545 D108 Referenced Standards ....................... 545 
APPENDIX E HAZARD CATEGORIES .......... 547 
Section 
E101 General. ................................. 547 
E102 Hazard Categories ......................... 547 
E103 Evaluation of Hazards ...................... 551 
E104 Referenced Standards ....................... 552 

APPENDIX F HAZARD RANKING •...........•. 553 Section F101 General. ................................. 553 F102 Referenced Standards ....................... 553 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPENDIX G CRYOGENIC FLUIDS­WEIGHT AND VOLUME EQUIVALENTS •••..•.••.•....... 555 
Section 
GlOl General .................................. 555 

APPENDIX H HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN (HMMP) AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENTS (HMIS) •.....••.... 557 
Section 
HI Scope ................................... 557 

H2 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statements (HMIS) .............. 557 
H3 Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) ................ 557 
H4 Maintenance of Records ..................... 558 

APPENDIX I 	FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-NONCOMPLIANT CONDITIONS..•..••...••........ 569 
Section 
IlOl Noncompliant Conditions .................... 569 

II02 Referenced Standards ....................... 570 

APPENDIX J 	BUILDING INFORMATION SIGN....•........•••...•.•..•... 571 
Section 
1101 General .................................. 571 

1102 Referenced Standards ....................... 573 

APPENDIX K TEMPORARY HAUNTED HOUSES, GHOST WALKS and SIMILAR AMUSEMENT USES ....•...•..... 575 
KlOl General .................................. 575 

K102 Definitions ............................... 575 

K103 General Requirements ...................... 576 

HISTORY NOTE APPENDIX ........••..•...... 579 

INDEX .......••••....••....••••...••......... 581 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 1-SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
> 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD 1 2 3 4  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC 
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  X  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  
Division I  
1.1 -1.12  X  
1. 11 -1. 11.2. 1. 1  X  
[T-19 §1.11]  X  
[T-19 §3.12]  X  
1.11.2.2  X  
[T-19 §1.08]  X  
[T-19 §1.13]  X  
1.11.10  X  
[T-19 §1.03]  X  
[T-19 §1.09.1]  X  
Division II  
102.1 -102.5  X  
102.9  X  
104.2  X  
104.5  X  
104.7-104.7.2  X  
104.10  X  
105 -105.2.2  X  
105.2.4  X  
105.3  X  
105.3.3 -105.3.8  X  
105.4 -105.4.6  X  
105.5  X  
105.6 -105.6.8  X  
Table 105.6.8  X  
105.6.10 -1 05.6.11  X  
105.6.13-105.6.15  X  
105.6.20  X  
Table 105.6.20  X  
105.6.21 -105.6.26  X  
105.6.43  X  
105.6.46  X  
105.6.47  X  
105.7-105.7.14  X  
1 06.2 -106.4  X  
109-109.3.1  X  
110.1 -11 0.4  X  
111-111.4  X  

..
. . . 

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISion 1 provlSions that are found In the Califomw Ftre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 1 
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION 


DIVISION I 
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION 

SECTION 1.1 
GENERAL 


1.1.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Califor­nia Fire Code, may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this code." The California Fire Code is Part 9 of twelve parts of the official compilation and publication ofthe adoptions, amendment, and repeal of building regulations to the California Code ofRegulations, Title 24, also referred to as the California Building Standards Code. This part incor­porates by adoption the 2012 International Fire Code of the International Code Council with necessary California amendments. 
1.1.2 Purpose. The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements consistent with nationally recognized good practices to safeguard the public health, safety and gen­eral welfare from the hazards offire, explosion or dangerous conditions in new and existing buildings, structures and premises, and to provide safety and assistance to fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. 
1.1.3 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replace­ment, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, main­tenance, removal and demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such building structures throughout the State ofCalifornia. 
This code establishes regulations affecting or relating to buildings, structures, processes, premises and a reasonable degree oflife and property safeguards regarding: 
I. 	The hazard offire and explosion arising from the stor­age, handling or use ofstructures, materials or devices. 
2. 	
Conditions hazardous to life, property or public wel­fare in the use or occupancy of buildings, structures or premises. 

3. 	
Fire hazards in the buildings, structures or on premises from use of, occupancy of, or operation. 

4. 	
Matters related to the construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal offire suppression or alarm sys­tems. 

5. 	
Conditions affecting the safety of fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. 


1.1.3.1 Nonstate-regulated buildings, structures and applications. Except as modified by local ordinance pur­suant to Section I.I.8, the following standards in the Cali­fornia Code ofRegulations, Title 24, Parts 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, I 0 and I I shall apply to all occupancies and applications not regulated by a state agency. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
1.1.3..2 State-regulated buildings, structures and applica­tions. The model code, state amendments to the model code, and/or state amendments where there are no rele­vant model code provisions shall apply to the following buildings, structures and applications regulated by state agencies as specified in Sections I.2 through I.I4, except < where modified by local ordinance pursuant to Section 
I.I.8. When adopted by a state agency, the provisions of this code shall be enforced by the appropriate enforcing agency, but only to the extent ofauthority granted to such agency by the state legislature. 
Note: See the Preface to distinguish the model code provi­sions from the California provisions. 
I. 	State-owned buildings, including buildings con­structed by the Trustees of the California State University, and to the extent permitted by Califor­nia laws, buildings designed and constructed by the Regents of the University of California, and regulated by the Building Standards Commission. See Section I .2 for additional scope provisions. 
2. 	
Local detention facilities regulated by the Correc­tions Standards Authority. See Section I .3 for additional scope provisions. 

3. 	
Barbering, cosmetology or electrolysis establish­ments, acupuncture offices, pharmacies, veteri­nary facilities and structural pest control locations regulated by the Department of Consumer Affairs. See Section I .4 for additional scope provisions. 

4. 	
Energy efficiency standards regulated by the Cali­fornia Energy Commission. See Section I.5 for additional scope provisions. 

5. 	
Dairies and places ofmeat inspection regulated by the Department of Food and Agriculture. See Sec­tion I.6 for additional scope provisions. 

6. 	
Organized camps, laboratory animal quarters, public swimming pools, radiation protection, com­missaries serving mobile food preparation vehi­cles and wild animal quarantine facilities regulated by the Department ofPublic Health. See Section I. 7for additional scope provisions. 

7. 	
Hotels, motels, lodging houses, apartment houses, dwellings, dormitories, condominiums, sheltersfor homeless persons, congregate residences, employee housing, factory-built housing and other types of dwellings containing sleeping accommo­dations with or without common toilets or cooking 



facilities. See Section 1.8.2.1.1 for additional scope provisions. 

8. 	Accommodations for persons with disabilities in buildings containing newly constructed covered multifamily dwellings, new common use spaces serving existing covered multifamily dwellings, additions to existing buildings where the addition alone meets the definition ofa "COVERED MUL­TIFAMILY DWELLING," and common-use spaces serving covered multifamily dwellings which are regulated by the Department ofHousing and Community Development. See · Section 
1.8.2.1.2 for additional scope provisions. 

9. 	
Permanent buildings and permanent accessory buildings or structures constructed within mobile home parks and special occupancy parks regu­lated by the Department of Housing and Commu­nity Development. See Section 1.8.2.1.3 for additional scope provisions. 

10. 	
Accommodations for persons with disabilities reg­ulated by the Division of the State Architect. See Section 1.9.1 for additional scope provisions. 


I I. 	Public elementary and secondary schools, commu­nity college buildings and state-owned or state­leased essential service buildings regulated by the Division of the State Architect. See Section 1.9.2 for additional scope provisions. 
12. 	
Qualified historical buildings and structures and their associated sites regulated by the State His­torical Building Safety Board with the Division of the State Architect. See Section 1.9.3 for addi­tional scope provisions. 

13. 	
General acute care hospitals, acute psychiatric hospitals, skilled nursing and/or intermediate care facilities, clinics licensed by the Department of Public Health and correctional treatment centers regulated by the Office of Statewide Health Plan­ning and Development. See Section 1.10 for addi­tional scope provisions. 

14. 	
Applications regulated by the Office of the State Fire Marshal include, but are not limited to, the following in accordance with Section I. I 1: 


14.1. 	Buildings or structures used or intended for use as an: 
1. 	
Asylum, jail, prison. 

2. 	
Mental hospital, hospital, home for the elderly, children's nursery, children's home or institution, school or any similar occupancy of any capacity. 

3. 	
Theater, dancehall, skating rink, auditorium, assembly hall, meeting hall, nightclub, fair building or similar place ofassemblage where 50 or more persons may gather together in a building, room or 


structure for the purpose ofamuse­ment, entertainment, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or dining, awaiting transportation, or education 
4. 	
Small family daycare homes, large family daycare homes, residential facilities and residential facilities for the elderly, residential care facilities. 

5. 	
State institutions or other state-owned or state-occupied buildings. 

6. 	
High-rise structures. 

7. 	
Motion picture production studios. 

8. 	
Organized camps. 

9. 	
Residential structures. 


14.2. 	Tents, awnings or other fabric enclo­sures used in connection with any occu­pancy. 
I 4.3. 	Fire alarm devices, equipment and sys­tems in connection with any occupancy. 
14.4. 	Hazardous materials, flammable and combustible liquids. 
14.5. 	Public school automatic fire detection, alarm and sprinkler systems. 
14.6. 	Wildland-urban interface fire areas. 

I5. 	Public libraries constructed and renovated using funds from the California Library Construction and Renovation Bond Act of 1988 and regulated by the State Librarian. See Section 1.12 for addi­tional scope provisions. 
16. 	
Graywater systems regulated by the Department of Water Resources. See Section 1.13 for addi­tional scope provisions. 

17. 	
For applications listed in Section 1.9.1 regulated by the Division of the State Architect-Access Compliance, outdoor environments and uses shall be classified according to accessibility uses described in Chapters I !A, I 1 B and 11 C. 


I 8. 	Marine Oil Terminals regulated by the California State Lands Commission. See Section 1.14 for additional scope provisions. 
1.1.4 Appendices. Provisions contained in the appendices of this code shall not apply unless specifically adopted by a state agency or adopted by a local enforcing agency in com­pliance with Health and Safety Code, Section 18901 et. seq. for Building Standards Law, Health and Safety Code, Section 17950 for State Housing Law and Health and Safety Code, Section 13869.7 for Fire Protection Districts. See Section 
1.1.8 ofthis code. 
1.1.5 Referenced codes. The codes, standards and publica­tions adopted and set forth in this code, including other codes, standards and publications referred to therein are, by title and date ofpublication, hereby adopted as standard ref­erence documents of this code. When this code does not spe­cifically cover any subject related to building design and construction, recognized architectural or engineering prac­tices shall be employed. The National Fire Codes, standards and the Fire Protection Handbook of the National Fire Pro­tection Association are permitted to be used as authoritative guides in determining recognized fire prevention engineering practices. 


1.1.6 Nonbuilding standards, orders and regulations. 
Requirements contained in the International Fire Code, or in any other referenced standard, code or document, which are not building standards as defined in Health and Safety Code, Section I 8909 shall not be construed as part ofthe provisions of this code. For nonbuilding standards, orders and regula­tions, see other titles ofthe California Code ofRegulations. 

1.1.7 Order ofprecedence and use. 
1.1.7.1 Differences. In the event of any differences between these building standards and the standard refer­ence documents, the text of these building standards shall govern. 
1.1.7.2 Specific provisions. Where a specific provision varies from a general provision, the specific provision shall apply. 

1.1.7.3 Conflicts. When the requirements ofthis code con­flict with the requirements ofany other part ofthe Califor­nia Building Standards Code, Title 24, the most restrictive requirements shall prevail. 
1.1.8 City, county, or city and county amendments, addi­tions or deletions. The provisions ofthis code do not limit the authority of city, county, or city and county governments to establish more restrictive and reasonably necessary differ­ences to the provisions contained in this code pursuant to complying with Section I.I.8.1. The effective date of amend­ments, additions or deletions to this code ofa city, county, or a city and county filed pursuant to Section 1.1.8.1 shall be the date filed. However, in no case shall the amendments, addi­tions or deletions to this code be effective any sooner than the effective date ofthis code. 
Local modifications shall comply with Health and Safety Code, Section 18941.5 for Building Standards Law, Health and Safety Code, Section 17958 for State Housing Law or Health and Safety Code, Section 13869.7 for Fire Protection Districts. 
1.1.8.1 Findings andfilings. 
1. 	
The city, county, or city and county shall make express findings for each amendment, addition or deletion based upon climatic, topographical or geo­logical conditions. 

Exception: Hazardous building ordinances and programs mitigating unreinforced masonry buildings. 

2. 	
The city, county, or city and county shall file the amendments, additions or deletions expressly marked and identified as to the applicable findings. Cities, counties, cities and counties, and fire depart­ments shall file the amendments, additions or dele-


DIVISION I CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION 
tions, and the findings with the California Building Standards Commission at 2525 Natomas Park Drive, Suite 130, Sacramento, CA 95833. 
3. 	Findings prepared by fire protection districts shall be ratified by the local city, county, or city and county and filed with the California Department of Housing and Community Development, Division of Codes and Standards, P.O. Box 1407, Sacramento, CA 95812-1407 or 1800 3rd Street, Room 260, Sac­ramento, CA 95811. 

1.1.9 Effective date of this code. Only those standards approved by the California Building Standards Commission that are effective at the time an application for building per­mit is submitted shall apply to the plans and specifications for, and to the construction performed under, that permit. For the effective dates of the provisions contained in this code, see the History Note page ofthis code. 
1.1.10 Availability of codes. At least one complete copy each ofTitles 8, 19, 20, 24 and 25 with all revisions shall be main­tained in the office ofthe building official responsible for the administration and enforcement of this code. Each state department concerned and each city, county, or city and county shall have an up-to-date copy ofthe code available for public inspection. See Health and Safety Code, Section 18942(d)(1) and (2). 
1.1.11 Format. This part fundamentally adopts the Interna­tional Fire Code by reference on a chapter-by-chapter basis. When a specific chapter ofthe International Fire Code is not printed in the code and is marked "Reserved," such chapter of the International Fire Code is not adopted as a portion of this code. When a specific chapter of the International Fire Code is marked "Not adopted by the State ofCalifornia," but appears in the code, it may be available for adoption by local ordinance. 
Note: Matrix Adoption Tables at the front ofeach chapter may aid the code user in determining which chapter or sections within a chapter are applicable to buildings under the authority ofa specific state agency, but they are not to be considered regulatory. 
1.1.12 Validity. Ifany chapter, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, contrary to statute, exceeding the authority ofthe state as stipulated by statutes or otherwise inoperative, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion ofthis code. 
SECTION 1.11 
OFFICE OF THE STATE FIRE MARSHAL 


1.11.1 SFM-Office of the State Fire Marshal. Specific scope of application of the agency responsible for enforce­ment, the enforcement agency and the specific authority to adopt and enforce such provisions of this code, unless other­wise stated. 
Application: 
Institutional, educational or any similar occupancy. Any building or structure used or intended for use as an asylum, 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
jail, mental hospital, hospital, sanitarium, home for the aged, children's nursery, children's home, school or any similar occupancy ofany capacity. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Assembly or similar place of assemblage. Any theater, dancehall, skating rink, auditorium, assembly hall, meeting hall, nightclub, fair building or similar place of assemblage where 50 or more persons may gather together in a building, room or structure for the purpose of amusement, entertain­ment, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or dining, awaiting transportation, or education. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Small family daycare homes. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Sections 
1597.45, 1597.54, 13143 and 17921. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 

Large family daycare homes. Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Sections 1597.46, 1597.54 and 17921. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Residential facilities and residential facilities for the elderly. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13133. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Any state institution or other state-owned or state-occupied building. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13108. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
High-rise structures. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13211. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Motion picture production studios. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.1. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Organized camps. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 18897.3. Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Residential. All hotels, motels, lodging houses, apartment houses and dwellings, including congregate residences and buildings and structures accessory thereto. Multiple-story structures existing on January 1, 1975, let for human habita­tion, including and limited to, hotels, motels and apartment houses, less than 75 feet (22 860 mm) above the lowest floor level having building access, wherein rooms used for sleep­ing are let above the ground floor. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Sections 
13143.2 and 17921. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 

Residential care facilities. Certified family care homes, out­of-home placement facilities, halfway houses, drug and/or alcohol rehabilitation facilities and any building or structure used or intended for use as a home or institution for the hous­ing ofany person ofany age when such person is referred to or placed within such home or institution for protective social care and supervision services by any governmental agency. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.6. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Tents, awnings or other fabric enclosures used in connec­tion with any occupancy. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13116. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Fire alarm devices, equipment and systems in connection with any occupancy. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13114. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Hazardous materials. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.9. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Flammable and combustible liquids. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.6. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143. 
Public school automatic fire detection, alarm and sprinkler systems. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Section 13143 and California Education Code, Article 7.5, Sections 17074.50, 17074.52 and 17074.54. Reference-Government Code, Section 11152.5, Health and Safety Code, Section 13143 and California Education Code Chapter 12.5, Leroy F. Greene School Facilities Act of1998, Article 1. 
Wildland-urban interface Fire Area. 
Authority cited-Health and Safety Code, Sections 13143, 
13108.5(a) and 18949.2(b) and (c) and Government Code, 
Section 51189. 
Reference-Health and Safety Code, Sections 13143, 
Government Code, Sections 51176, 51177, 51178 and 
51179 and Public Resources Code, Sections 4201 through 
4204. 

1.11.1.1 Adopting agency identification. The provisions of this code applicable to buildings identified in this Sub­section 1.11.1 will be identified in the Matrix Adoption Tables under the acronym SFM. 



1.11.2 Duties and powers ofthe enforcing agency. 
1.11.2.1 Enforcement. 
1.11.2.1.1 The responsibility for enforcement of build­ing standards adopted by the State Fire Marshal and published in the California Building Standards Code relating to fire and panic safety and other regulations of the State Fire Marshal shall be, except as provided in Section 1.11.2.1.2, as follows: 
1. 	The city, county, or city and county with jurisdic­tion in the area affected by the standard or regu­lation shall delegate the enforcement of the building standards relating to fire and panic safety and other regulations of the State Fire Marshal as they relate to Group R-3 occupan­cies, as described in Section 310.1 of Part 2 of the California Building Standards Code, to either ofthe following: 
1.1. 	The chief of the fire authority of the city, county or city and county, or an authorized representative. 
1.2. 
The chief building official ofthe city, county, or city and county, or an authorized repre­sentative. 

2. 	
The chief ofany city or county fire department or of any fire protection district, and authorized representatives, shall enforce within the jurisdic­tion the building standards and other regulations ofthe State Fire Marshal, except those described in Item 1 or 4. 

3. 	
The State Fire Marshal shall have authority to enforce the building standards and other regula­tions ofthe State Fire Marshal in areas outside of corporate cities and districts providing fire pro­tection services. 

4. 	
The State Fire Marshal shall have authority to enforce the building standards and other regula­tions ofthe State Fire Marshal in corporate cities and districts providing fire protection services on request of the chief fire official or the governing body. 

5. 	
Any fee charged pursuant to the enforcement authority of this section shall not exceed the esti­mated reasonable cost of providing the service for which the fee is charged pursuant to Section 66014 ofthe Government Code. 



[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1.11] Enforcement ofRegulations. 
In most instances, the application of California Code ofReg­ulations, Title 19, Division 1 to existing occupancies will necessitate the granting of sufficient time to effect the neces­sary changes. The inspection authority must, therefore, exer­cise good judgment in authorizing sufficient time to complete the required changes, taking into consideration the degree of danger to life in event offire while rectification is being car­ried out. The inspection authority may require immediate compliance with any or all of the regulations, or he may grant a reasonable length oftime in which to conform. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.12] Enforcement Agency. 
(a) 	
The provisions of California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations shall be enforced by the State Fire Marshal, the chief ofany city or county fire department or fire protection district, and their authorized representatives, in their respective areas a/jurisdiction. 

(b) 	
The division ofauthority for the enforcement of these regulations shall be in accordance with the following: 

(
1) The chief of any city or county fire department or fire protection district, and their authorized repre-


DIVISION I CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION 
sentatives shall enforce the rules and regulations in their respective areas. 

(2) 	
The State Fire Marshal shall have authority to enforce the rules and regulations in areas outside of corporate cities and county fire protection dis­tricts. 

(3) 	
The State Fire Marshal shall have authority to enforce the rules and regulations in corporate cit­ies and county fire protection districts upon request of the chief fire official or the governing body. 


(c) 	
Regardless of the provisions of subsections (a) and 

(b) 
above, these regulations shall be enforced in state institutions, state-owned and state-occupied buildings in accordance with the provisions of Section 13108, Health and Safety Code. 


(d) 	
Regardless of the above provisions of this section, these regulations shall be enforced only by the State Fire Marshal in every jail or place of detention for persons charged with or convicted of a crime, unless the chief of a city or county fire department or fire protection district, or such chief's authorized repre­sentative, indicates in writing to the State Fire Mar­shal that inspections of such jails or places of detention will be conducted by the chief or such per­son's authorized representative, in their respective area ofjurisdiction. The inspections shall be made at least once every two years for the purpose of enforc­ing the regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal, pursuant to Section 13143. Reports ofinspection con­ducted pursuant to this subsection shall be on forms provided by the State Fire Marshal and shall be sub­mitted to the official in charge ofthe facility, the local governing body, the State Fire Marshal and the Cor­rections Standards Authority within 30 days of the inspections. 


1.11.2.1.2 Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13108, and except as otherwise provided in this sec­tion, building standards adopted by the State Fire Mar­shal published in the California Building Standards Code relating to fire and panic safety shall be enforced by the State Fire Marshal in all state-owned buildings, state-occupied buildings, and state institutions throughout the state. Upon the written request of the chief fire official of any city, county or fire protection district, the State Fire Marshal may authorize such chief fire official and his or her authorized representa­tives, in their geographical area of responsibility, to make fire prevention inspections of state-owned or state-occupied buildings, other than state institutions, for the purpose ofenforcing the regulations relating to fire and panic safety adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to this section and building standards relating to fire and panic safety published in the California Building Standards Code. Authorization from the State Fire Marshal shall be limited to those fire departments or fire districts which maintain a fire prevention bureau staffed by paid personnel. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13108, any requirement or order made by any chief fire official who is authorized by the State Fire Marshal to make fire prevention inspections of state-owned or state­occupied buildings, other than state institutions, may be appealed to the State Fire Marshal. The State Fire Marshal shall, upon receiving an appeal and subject to the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 18945) of Part 2.5 of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, determine if the requirement or order made is reasonably consistent with the fire and panic safety regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal and building standards relating to fire and panic safety published in the California Building Code. 
Any person may request a code interpretation from the State Fire Marshal relative to the intent ofany reg­ulation or provision adopted by the State Fire Marshal. When the request relates to a specific project, occu­pancy or building, the State Fire Marshal shall review the issue with the appropriate local enforcing agency prior to rendering such code interpretation. 
1.11.2.1.3 Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13112, any person who violates any order, rule or reg­ulation of the State Fire Marshal is guilty of a misde­meanor punishable by a fine ofnot less than $100.00 or more than $500.00, or by imprisonment for not less than six months, or by both. A person is guilty ofa sep­arate offense each day during which he or she commits, continues or permits a violation ofany provision of, or any order, rule or regulation of, the State Fire Marshal as contained in this code. 
Any inspection authority who, in the exercise of his or her authority as a deputy State Fire Marshal, causes any legal complaints to be filed or any arrest to be made shall notify the State Fire Marshal immediately following such action. 
1.11.2.2 Right of entry. The fire chief of any city, county or fire protection district, or such person's authorized rep­resentative, may enter any state institution or any other state-owned or state-occupied building for the purpose of preparing a fire suppression pre planning program or for the purpose of investigating any fire in a state-occupzed building. 
The State Fire Marshal, his or her deputies or salaried assistants, the chief of any city or county fire department or fire protection district and his or her authorized repre­sentatives may enter any building or premises not used for dwelling purposes at any reasonable hour for the purpose of enforcing this chapter. The owner, lessee, manag~r or operator ofany such building or premises shall permzt the State Fire Marshal, his or her deputies or salaried assis­tants and the chief ofany city or county fire department or fire protection district and his or her authorized represen­tatives to enter and inspect them at the time and for the purpose stated in this section. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1.08] Report ofArrest. 
Any inspection authority who, in the exercise of his authority as a Deputy State Fire Marshal, causes any legal complaints to be filed or any arrest to be made shall notify the State Fire Marshal immediately following such action. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1.13] Penalty. 
Section 13112 ofthe Health and Safety Code provides that: 
(a) 	
"Every person who violates any provision of this chapter, or any order, rule or regulation made pursu­ant to this chapter is guilty ofa misdemeanor punish­able by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) or more than five hundred dollars ($500), or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both." 

(b) 	
"A person is guilty of a separate offense each day during which he commits, continues, or permits a vio­lation ofany provision of, or any order, rule or regu­lation made pursuant to, this chapter. " 


1.11.2.3 More restrictive fire and panic safety building standards. 
1.11.2.3.1 Any fire protection district organized pursu­ant to Health and Safety Code Part 2. 7 (commencing with Section 13800) ofDivision 12 may adopt building standards relating to fire and panic safety that are more stringent than those building standards adopted by the State Fire Marshal and contained in the Califor­nia Building Standards Code. For these purposes, the district board shall be deemed a legislative body and the district shall be deemed a local agency. Any changes or modifications that are more stringent than the requirements published in the California Building Standards Code relating to fire and panic safety shall be subject to Section 1.1.8.1. 
1.11.2.3.2 Any fire protection district that proposes to adopt an ordinance pursuant to this section shall, not less than 30 days prior to noticing a proposed ordi­nance for public hearing, provide a copy of that ordi­nance, together with the adopted findings made pursuant to Section 1.11.2.3.1, to the city, county, or city and county where the ordinance will apply. The city, county, or city and county may provide the district with written comments, which shall become part of the fire protection district's public hearing record. 
1.11.2.3.3 The fire protection district shall transmit the adopted ordinance to the city, county, or city and county where the ordinance will apply. The legislative body of the city, county, or city and county may ratify, modify or deny an adopted ordinance and transmit its determination to the district within 15 days ofthe deter­mination. Any modification or denial of an adopted ordinance shall include a written statement describing the reasons for any modifications or denial. No ordi­nance adopted by the district shall be effective until rat­ification by the city, county, or city and county where the ordinance will apply. Upon ratification of an adopted ordinance, the city, county, or city and county shall file a copy of the findings of the district, and any findings ofthe city, county, or city and county, together with the adopted ordinance expressly marked and iden­tified to which each finding refers, in accordance with Section 1.1.8.1(3). 
1.11.2.4 Request for alternate means of protection. Requests for approval to use an alternative material, assembly or materials, equipment, method ofconstruction, method ofinstallation ofequipment or means ofprotection shall be made in writing to the enforcing agency by the owner or the owner's authorized representative and shall be accompanied by a full statement of the conditions. Suf­ficient evidence or proofshall be submitted to substantiate any claim that may be made regarding its conformance. The enforcing agency may require tests and the submis­sion ofa test report from an approved testing organization as set forth in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, to substantiate the equivalency of the proposed alternative means ofprotection. 
When a request for alternate means of protection involves hazardous materials, the authority having juris­diction may consider implementation of the findings and recommendations identified in a Risk Management Plan (RMP) developed in accordance with Title 19, Division 2, Chapter 4.5, Article 3. 
Approval of a request for use of an alternative mate­rial, assembly of materials, equipment, method of con­struction, method of installation ofequipment or means of protection made pursuant to these provisions shall be lim­ited to the particular case covered by request and shall not be construed as establishing any precedent for any future request. 
1.11.2.5 Appeals. When a request for an alternate means ofprotection has been denied by the enforcing agency, the applicant may file a written appeal to the State Fire Mar­shal for consideration of the applicant's proposal. In con­sidering such appeal, the State Fire Marshal may seek the advice of the State Board of Fire Services. The State Fire Marshal shall, after considering all ofthe facts presented, including any recommendations ofthe State Board of Fire Services, determine if the proposal is for the purposes intended, at least equivalent to that specified in these reg­ulations in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety, and shall transmit such findings and any recommendations to the applicant and to the enforc­ing agency. 
1.11.3 Construction documents. 
1.11.3.1 Public schools. Plans and specifications for the construction, alteration or addition to any building owned, leased or rented by any public school district shall be sub­mitted to the Division ofthe State Architect. 
1.11.3.2 Movable walls and partitions. Plans or diagrams shall be submitted to the eriforcing agency for approval before the installation of, or rearrangement of, any mov-
DIVISION I CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION 

able wall or partition in any occupancy. Approval shall be granted only if there is no increase in the fire hazard. 
1.11.3.3 New construction high-rise buildings. 
1. 	
Complete plans or specifications, or both, shall be prepared covering all work required to comply with new construction high-rise buildings. Such plans and specifications shall be submitted to the enforc­ing agency having jurisdiction. 

2. 	
All plans and specifications shall be prepared under the responsible charge of an architect or a civil or structural engineer authorized by law to develop construction plans and specifications, or by both such architect and engineer. Plans and specifica­tions shall be prepared by an engineer duly quali­fied in that branch of engineering necessary to peiform such services. Administration ofthe work of construction shall be under the charge of the responsible architect or engineer except that where plans and specifications involve alterations or repairs, such work of construction may be adminis­tered by an engineer duly qualified to peiform such services and holding a valid certificate under Chap­ter 7 (commencing with Section 65700) ofDivision 3 of the Business and Professions Code for peifor­mance of services in that branch of engineering in which said plans, specifications and estimates and work ofconstruction are applicable. 



This section shall not be construed as preventing the design offire-extinguishing systems by persons holding a C-16 license issued pursuant to Division 3, Chapter 9, Business and Professions Code. In such instances, how­ever, the responsibility charge ofthis section shall prevail. 

1.11.3.4 Existing high-rise buildings. 
1. 	
Complete plans or specifications, or both, shall be prepared covering all work required by Section 3412 for existing high-rise buildings. Such plans or specifications shall be submitted to the enforcing agency having jurisdiction. 

2. 	
When new construction is required to conform with the provisions of these regulations, complete plans or specifications, or both, shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. As used in this section, "new construction" is not intended to include repairs, replacements or minor alterations which do not disrupt or appreciably add to or affect the structural aspects ofthe building. 



1.11.3.5 Retention of plans. Refer to Building Standards Law, Health and Safety Code, Sections 19850 and 19851 for permanent retention ofplans. 


1.11.4 Fees. 
1.11.4.1 Other fees. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13146.2, a city, county or district which inspects a hotel, motel, lodging house or apartment house may charge and collect a fee for the inspection from the owner of the structure in an amount, as determined by the city, county or district, sufficient to pay its costs ofthat inspec­tion. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
1.11.4.2 Large family daycare. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 1597.46, Large Family Day-Care Homes, the local government shall process any required permit as economically as possible, and fees charged for review shall not exceed the costs of the review and permit process. 
1.11.4.3 High-rise. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13217, High-rise Structure Inspection: Fees and Costs, a local agency which inspects a high-rise structure pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13217 may charge and collect a fee for the inspection from the owner of the high-rise structure in an amount, as determined by the local agency, sufficient to pay its costs of that inspec­tion. 
1.11.4.4 Fire clearance preinspection. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section I 3235, Fire Clearance Prein­spection, fee, upon receipt ofa request from a prospective licensee ofa community care facility, as defined in Section 1502, of a residential care facility for the elderly, as defined in Section 1569.2, or ofa child daycare facility, as defined in Section 1596.750, the local fire enforcing agency, as defined in Section 13244, or State Fire Mar­shal, whichever has primary jurisdiction, shall conduct a preinspection of the facility prior to the final fire clear­ance approval. At the time of the preinspection, the pri­mary fire enforcing agency shall price consultation and interpretation ofthe fire safety regulations and shall notify the prospective licensee of the facility in writing of the specific fire safety regulations which shall be enforced in order to obtain fire clearance approval. A fee equal to, but not exceeding, the actual cost ofthe preinspection may be charged for the preinspection of a facility with a capacity to serve 25 or fewer persons. A fee equal to, but not exceeding, the actual cost of the preinspection may be charged for a pre inspection ofa facility with a capacity to serve 26 or more persons. 
1.11.4.5 Care facilities. The primary fire enforcing agency shall complete the final fire clearance inspection for a community care facility, residential care facility for the elderly, or child day-care facility within 30 days ofreceipt of the request for the final inspection, or as of the date the prospective facility requests the final pre licensure inspec­tion by the State Department ofSocial Services, whichever is later. 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13235, a preinspection fee equal to, but not exceeding, the actual cost ofthe preinspection may be charged for a facility with a capacity to serve 25 or less clients. A fee equal to, but not exceeding, the actual cost of the preinspection may be charged for a preinspection ofa facility with a capacity to serve 26 or more clients. 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13131.5, a reasonable final inspection fee, not to exceed the actual cost of inspection services necessary to complete a final inspection may be charged for occupancies classified as residential care facilities for the elderly (RCFE). 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 1569.84, neither the State Fire Marshal nor any local public entity shall charge any fee for enforcing fire inspection regula­tions pursuant to state law or regulation or local ordi­nance, with respect to residential care facilities for the elderly (RCFE) which service six or fewer persons. 
1.11.4.6 Requests ofthe Office ofthe State Fire Marshal. 
Whenever a local authority having jurisdiction requests that the State Fire Marshal peiform plan review and/or inspection services related to a building permit, the appli­cable fees for such shall be payable to the Office of the State Fire Marshal. 
1.11.5 Inspections. Work peiformed subject to the provisions of this Code shall comply with the inspection requirements contained in Section 106, as adopted by the Office ofthe State Fire Marshal. 
1.11.5.1 Existing Group 1-1 orR occupancies. Licensed 24-hour care in a Group 1-1 orR occupancy in existence and originally classified under previously adopted state codes shall be reinspected under the appropriate previous code, provided there is no change in the use or character which would place the facility in a different occupancy group. 
1.11.6 Certificate of Occupancy. A Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued as specified in Title 24, Part 2, California Building Code, Section 111. 
1.11.7 Temporary Structures and Uses. See Title 24, Part 2, California Building Code, Section 108. II 
1.11.8 Service Utilities. See Title 24, Part 2, California Building Code, Section 112. 
1.11.9 Stop Work Order. See Title 24, Part 2, California Building Code, Section 115. 
1.11.10 Unsafe Buildings, Structures and Equipment. See Title 24, Part 2, California Building Code, Section 116. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1.03] Scope. 
(a) 	California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations shall govern the use and maintenance of any building or structure used or intended for use as an asylum, jail, mental hospital, hospital, sanitarium, home for aged, children's home or institution, school or any similar occupancy of any capacity; and any theater, dance hall, skating rink, auditorium, assem­bly hall, meeting hall, night club, fair building, or similar place of assemblage where 50 or more per­sons may gather together in a building, room or struc­ture for the purpose of amusement, entertainment, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or dining, awaiting transportation, or education, and in any building or structure which is open to the public and is used or intended to be used for the showing of motion pictures when an admission fee is charged and when such building or structure has a capacity of 10 or more persons, and shall apply to both new and existing occupancies. 
Exceptions: 
(1) 	Buildings controlled by the Federal Govern­ment, provided they are not subject to the 
DIVISION I CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION 
provisions of Section I5452, Education Code. 
(2) 	Homes and institutions and day care facili­ties which provide nonmedical board, room, and care for six or fewer ambulatory chil­dren. 

California Code ofRegulations, Title I9, Division I regu­lations shall also apply to any building housing any occu­pancy when such building is used as an auxiliary or accessory structure to any of the occupancies specified herein. They do not apply to structural requirements not relating to fire and panic safety nor to matters dealing exclu­sively with health and sanitation. 
(b) 	
In accordance with Section 13108 of the Health and Safety Code, California Code ofRegulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall govern the design and construction relating to fire protection in any state institution and in any state-owned or state-occupied building. For purposes of California Code ofRegula­tions, Title I9, Division I regulations, "state-occu­pied buildings" are defined as those portions of a building which are leased or rented by the state and shall include all required exits leading therefrom to a public way. Portions of state-occupied buildings which are not leased or rented by the state shall not fall within the scope of this subsection unless such portions present an exposure hazard to the state­occupied area. 

(c) 	
California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall also govern the use and mainte­nance of "organized camps" as defined in Section I8897, Health and Safety Code. 

(d) 	
California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall also govern the use and mainte­nance of any building or structure used or intended for the housing of any person of any age when such person is referred to or placed within such home or facility for protective social care and supervision ser­vices by any governmental agency. 

(e) 	
California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall also govern the construction, use and maintenance ofevery building ofany type ofcon­struction or occupancy having floors used for human occupancy located more than 75 feet above the lowest floor level having building access. For the purpose of this subsection, "building access" shall mean an exte­rior door opening conforming to all ofthe following: 

(I) 	
Suitable and available for fire department use. 

(2) 	
Located not more than 2 feet above the adjacent ground level. 

(
3) Leading 	to a space, room or area having foot traffic communication capabilities with the remainder ofthe building. 



(4) 	
Designed to permit penetration through the use of fire department forcible entry tools and equipment unless other approved arrange­ments have been made with the fire authority having jurisdiction. 


(f) 	
California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall also apply to vehicles, ships and boats or other mobile structures when fixed in a spe­cific location and used for any occupancy within the scope ofthis section. 


Note: Unless otherwise specified, Title I9 applies to all building occupancies, and related features and equipment throughout the state. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1.09.1] Order ofPrecedence. 
In the event of any differences between California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations and the stan­dard reference documents or standard fire prevention prac­tices, the text of California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I regulations shall govern. Where a specific provi­sion varies from a general provision, the specific provision shall apply. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
DIVISION II 
ADMINISTRATION 

PART 1-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SECTION 101 GENERAL 

II 
Note: Sections adopted or amended by state agencies are specifically indicated by an agency banner or indicated in the Matrix Adoption Table. 
[A] 
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as "this code." 

[A] 
101.2 Scope. This code establishes regulations affecting or relating to structures, processes, premises and safeguards regarding: 


1. 	
The hazard of fire and explosion arising from the stor­age, handling or use of structures, materials or devices; 

2. 	
Conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises; 

3. 	
Fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or operation; 

4. 
Matters related to the construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal of fire suppression or alarm sys­tems; and 

5. 	
Conditions affecting the safety of fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. 


[A] 
101.2.1 Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted. 

[A] 
101.3 Intent. The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements consistent with nationally recognized good practice for providing a reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the hazards of fire, explosion or dangerous conditions in new and existing buildings, struc­tures and premises, and to provide safety to fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. 

[A] 
101.4 Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code. 

[A] 
101.5 Validity. In the event any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions hereof, which are determined to be legal; and it shall be pre­sumed that this code would have been adopted without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions. 


SECTION 102 APPLICABILITY 

[A] 102.1 Construction and design provisions. The con­struction and design provisions of this code shall apply to: 
1. 	
Structures, facilities and conditions arising after the adoption of this code. 

2. 	
Existing structures, facilities and conditions not legally in existence at the time of adoption of this code. 

3. 	
Existing structures, facilities and conditions when required in Chapter 11. 

4. 	
Existing structures, facilities and conditions which, in the opinion of the fire code official, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property. 


[A] 102.2 Administrative, operational and maintenance provisions. The administrative, operational and maintenance provisions of this code shall apply to: 
1. 	
Conditions and operations arising after the adoption of this code. 

2. 	
Existing conditions and operations. 


[A] 
102.3 Change of use or occupancy. No change shall be made in the use or occupancy of any structure that would place the structure in a different division of the same group or occupancy or in a different group of occupancies, unless such structure is made to comply with the requirements of this code and the California Building Code. Subject to the approval of the fire code official, the use or occupancy of an existing structure shall be allowed to be changed and the structure is allowed to be occupied for purposes in other groups without conforming to all of the requirements of this code and the California Building Code for those groups, pro­vided the new or proposed use is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use. 

[A] 
102.4 Application of building code. The design and construction of new structures shall comply with the Califor­nia Building Code, and any alterations, additions, changes in use or changes in structures required by this code, which are within the scope of the California Building Code, shall be made in accordance therewith. 

[A] 
102.5 Application of residential code. Where structures are designed and constructed in accordance with the Califor­nia Residential Code, the provisions of this code shall apply as follows: 


1. 	
Construction and design provisions: Provisions of this code pertaining to the exterior of the structure shall apply including, but not limited to, premises identifica­tion, fire apparatus access and water supplies. Where interior or exterior systems or devices are installed, construction permits required by Section 105.7 of this code shall also apply. 

2. 	
Administrative, operational and maintenance provi­sions: All such provisions of this code shall apply. 


[A] 102.6 Historic buildings. The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures do not constitute a distinct hazard to life or property. Fire protection in designated historic buildings and structures shall be pro­vided in accordance with an approved fire protection plan. 
[A] 
102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 80, and such codes and standards shall be consid­ered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sec­tions 102.7.1 and 102.7.2. 

[A] 
102.7.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between pro­visions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply. 


[A] 
102.7.2 Provisions in referenced codes and stan­dards. Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applica­ble, shall take precedence over the provisions in the refer­enced code or standard. 

[A] 
102.8 Subjects not regulated by this code. Where no applicable standards or requirements are set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordi­nances or bylaws adopted by the jurisdiction, compliance with applicable standards of the National Fire Protection Association or other nationally recognized fire safety stan­dards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of compliance with the intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the authority of the fire code official to determine compliance with codes or standards for those activities or installations within the fire code official's juris­diction or responsibility. 

[A] 
102.9 Matters not provided for. Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occu­pants thereof, which are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by the fire code official. 

[A] 
102.10 Conflicting provisions. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in a spe­cific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. 

[A] 
102.11 Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law. 

[A] 
102.12 Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identi­fied by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code. 


DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 

PART 2-ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS 
SECTION 103 
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION 


[A] 
103.1 General. The department of fire prevention is established within the jurisdiction under the direction of the fire code official. The function of the department shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provi­sions of this code. 

[A] 
103.2 Appointment. The fire code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdic­tion; and the fire code official shall not be removed from office except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on specific and relevant charges by and before the appointing authority. 

[A] 
103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed proce­dures of this jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the fire code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy fire code official, other related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. 

[A] 
103.4 Liability. The fire code official, member of the board of appeals, officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. 

[A] 
103.4.1 Legal defense. Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final termi­nation of the proceedings. The fire code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code; and any officer of the department of fire pre­vention, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of its pro­visions or by reason of any act or omission in the perfor­mance of official duties in connection therewith. 


SECTION 104 GENERAL AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
[A] 104.1 General. The fire code official is hereby autho­rized to enforce the provisions of this code and shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code, and to adopt policies, procedures, rules and regulations in order to clarify 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, poli­cies, procedures, mles and regulations shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code. 
[A] 
104.2 Applications and permits. The fire code official is authorized to receive applications, review constmction docu­ments and issue permits for constmction regulated by this code, issue permits for operations regulated by this code, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code. 

[A] 
104.3 Right of entry. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, or when­ever the fire code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon any premises any conditions or violations of this code which make the building or prem­ises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the fire code official shall have the authority to enter the building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed upon the fire code official by this code. If such building or premises is occupied, the fire code official shall present cre­dentials to the occupant and request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied, the fire code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the fire code official has recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. 

[A] 
104.3.1 Warrant. When the fire code official has first obtained a proper inspection wanant or other remedy pro­vided by law to secure entry, an owner or occupant or per­son having charge, care or control of the building or premises shall not fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the fire code official for the purpose of inspection and examina­tion pursuant to this code. 

[A] 
104.4 Identification. The fire code official shall cany proper identification when inspecting stmctures or premises in the performance of duties under this code. 

[A] 
104.5 Notices and orders. The fire code official is autho­rized to issue such notices or orders as are required to affect compliance with this code in accordance with Sections 109.1 and 109.2. 

[A] 
104.6 Official records. The fire code official shall keep official records as required by Sections 104.6.1 through 


104.6.4. Such official records shall be retained for not less than five years or for as long as the stmcture or activity to which such records relate remains in existence, unless other­wise provided by other regulations. 
[A] 
104.6.1 Approvals. A record of approvals shall be maintained by the fire code official and shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable laws. 

[A] 
104.6.2 Inspections. The fire code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each. 


[A] 
104.6.3 Fire records. The fire department shall keep a record of fires occurring within its jurisdiction and of facts concerning the same, including statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby, together with other information as required by the fire code official. 

[A] 
104.6.4 Administrative. Application for modifica­tion, alternative methods or materials and the final deci­sion of the fire code official shall be in writing and shall be officially recorded in the permanent records of the fire code official. 

[A] 
104.7 Approved materials and equipment. All materi­als, equipment and devices approved by the fire code official shall be constmcted and installed in accordance with such approval. 

[A] 
104.7.1 Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused or reinstalled unless such elements have been reconditioned, tested and placed in good and proper working condition and approved. 

[A] 
104.7.2 Technical assistance. To determine the acceptability of technologies, processes, products, facili­ties, materials and uses attending the design, operation or use of a building or premises subject to inspection by the fire code official, the fire code official is authorized to require the owner or agent to provide, without charge to the jurisdiction, a technical opinion and report. The opin­ion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the fire code official and shall analyze the fire safety properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon, to recommend necessary changes. The fire code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional. 

[A] 
104.8 Modifications. Whenever there are practical diffi­culties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the fire code official shall have the authority to grant modifi­cations for individual cases, provided the fire code official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and the modification is in com­pliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of fire prevention. 

[A] 
104.9 Alternative materials and methods. The provi­sions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any method of constmction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. The fire code official is autho­rized to approve an alternative material or method of con­stmction where the fire code official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the pro­visions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. 


[A] 
104.9.1 Research reports. Supporting data, when necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assem­blies not specifically provided for in this code, shall con­sist of valid research reports from approved sources. 

[A] 
104.9.2 Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, or evi­dence that a material or method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the fire code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made at no expense to the jurisdiction. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, the fire code official shall approve the testing procedures. Tests shall be performed by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained by the fire code official for the period required for retention of public records. 


[A] 
104.10 Fire investigations. The fire code official, the fire department or other responsible authority shall have the authority to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of any fire, explosion or other hazardous condition. Information that could be related to trade secrets or processes shall not be made part of the public record, except as directed by a court of law. 

[A] 
104.10.1 Assistance from other agencies. Police and other enforcement agencies shall have authority to render necessary assistance in the investigation of fires when requested to do so. 


[A] 
104.11 Authority at fires and other emergencies. The fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of life or property, or any part thereof, shall have the authority to direct such operation as necessary to extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation, investigate the exis­tence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other hazard­ous conditions or situations, or take any other action necessary in the reasonable performance of duty. In the exer­cise of such power, the fire chief is authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel or thing from approaching the scene, and is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed or kept away from the scene, any vehicle, vessel or thing which could impede or interfere with the operations of the fire department and, in the judgment of the fire chief, any person not actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire or in the preservation of property in the vicinity thereof. 

[A] 
104.11.1 Barricades. The fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across any street, alley, place or private prop­erty in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent acci­dents or interference with the lawful efforts of the fire department to manage and control the situation and to han­dle fire apparatus. 

[A] 
104.11.2 Obstructing operations. No person shall obstruct the operations of the fire department in connec­tion with extinguishment or control of any fire, or actions relative to other emergencies, or disobey any lawful com-



DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 
mand of the fire chief or officer of the fire department in 
charge of the emergency, or any part thereof, or any lawful 
order of a police officer assisting the fire department. 
[A] 104.11.3 Systems and devices. No person shall render a system or device inoperative during an emergency unless by direction of the fire chief or fire department official in charge of the incident. 
SECTION 105 
PERMITS 


[A] 
105.1 General. Permits shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 105.1.1 through 105.7.16. 

[A] 
105.1.1 Permits required. Any property owner or authorized agent who intends to conduct an operation or business, or install or modify systems and equipment which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the fire code official and obtain the required permit. 

[A] 
105.1.2 Types of permits. There shall be two types of permits as follows: 


1. 	Operational permit. An operational permit allows the applicant to conduct an operation or a business for which a permit is required by Section 105.6 for either: 
1.1. A prescribed period. 
1.2. 
Until renewed or revoked. 

2. 	
Construction permit. A construction permit allows the applicant to install or modify systems and equip­ment for which a permit is required by Section 


105.7. 

[A] 
105.1.3 Multiple permits for the same location. When more than one permit is required for the same loca­tion, the fire code official is authorized to consolidate such permits into a single permit provided that each provision is listed in the permit. 

[A] 
105.2 Application. Application for a permit required by this code shall be made to the fire code official in such form and detail as prescribed by the fire code official. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by such plans as prescribed by the fire code official. 

[A] 
105.2.1 Refusal to issue permit. If the application for a permit describes a use that does not conform to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, the fire code official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the application to the applicant with the refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reasons for refusal. 

[A] 
105.2.2 Inspection authorized. Before a new opera­tional permit is approved, the fire code official is autho­rized to inspect the receptacles, vehicles, buildings, devices, premises, storage spaces or areas to be used to determine compliance with this code or any operational constraints required. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[A] 
105.2.3 Time limitation of application. An applica­tion for a permit for any proposed work or operation shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been diligently prose­cuted or a permit shall have been issued; except that the fire code official is authorized to grant one or more exten­sions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justi­fiable cause demonstrated. 

[A] 
105.2.4 Action on application. The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction docu­ments do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the fire code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the fire code offi­cial is satisfied that the proposed work or operation con­forms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the fire code official shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. 

[A] 
105.3 Conditions of a permit. A permit shall constitute permission to maintain, store or handle materials; or to con­duct processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property; or to install equipment utilized in connection with such activities; or to install or modify any fire protection sys­tem or equipment or any other construction, equipment instal­lation or modification in accordance with the provisions of this code where a permit is required by Section 105.6 or 


105.7. Such permission shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel or set aside any of the provisions of this code or other applicable regulations or laws of the jurisdiction. 
[A] 
105.3.1 Expiration. An operational permit shall remain in effect until reissued, renewed or revoked, or for such a period of time as specified in the permit. Construc­tion permits shall automatically become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Before such work recommences, a new permit shall be first obtained and the fee to recommence work, if any, shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original construction documents for such work, and provided fur­ther that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. Permits are not transferable and any change in occupancy, operation, tenancy or ownership shall require that a new permit be issued. 

[A] 
105.3.2 Extensions. A permittee holding an unexpired permit shall have the right to apply for an extension of the time within which the permittee will commence work under that permit when work is unable to be commenced within the time required by this section for good and satis­factory reasons. The fire code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of the time period of a permit for periods of not more than 180 days each. Such extensions shall be requested by the permit holder in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. 


[A] 
105.3.3 Occupancy prohibited before approval. The building or structure shall not be occupied prior to the fire code official issuing a permit and conducting associated inspections indicating the applicable provisions of this code have been met. 

[A] 
105.3.4 Conditional permits. Where permits are required and upon the request of a permit applicant, the fire code official is authorized to issue a conditional permit to occupy the premises or portion thereof before the entire work or operations on the premises is completed, provided that such portion or portions will be occupied safely prior to full completion or installation of equipment and opera­tions without endangering life or public welfare. The fire code official shall notify the permit applicant in writing of any limitations or restrictions necessary to keep the permit area safe. The holder of a conditional permit shall proceed only to the point for which approval has been given, at the permit holder's own risk and without assurance that approval for the occupancy or the utilization of the entire premises, equipment or operations will be granted. 

[A] 
105.3.5 Posting the permit. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the fire code official. 

[A] 
105.3.6 Compliance with code. The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provi­sions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdic­tion. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. Any addition to or alteration of approved construction documents shall be approved in advance by the fire code official, as evidenced by the issuance of a new or amended permit. 

[A] 
105.3.7 Information on the permit. The fire code official shall issue all permits required by this code on an approved form furnished for that purpose. The permit shall contain a general description of the operation or occu­pancy and its location and any other information required by the fire code official. Issued permits shall bear the sig­nature of the fire code official or other approved legal authorization. 

[A] 
105.3.8 Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provi­sions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on con­struction documents, operational documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring correction of errors in the documents or other data. 

[A] 
105.4 Construction documents. Construction docu­ments shall be in accordance with this section. 


[A] 105.4.1 Submittals. Construction documents and sup­porting data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit and in such form and detail as required by the fire code official. The construction doc­uments shall be prepared by a registered design profes­sional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. 
Exception: The fire code official is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents and support­ing data not required to be prepared by a registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code. 
[A] 105.4.1.1 Examination of documents. The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascer­tain by such examinations whether the work indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code. 
[A] 105.4.2 Information on construction documents. 
Construction documents shall be drawn to scale upon suit­able material. Electronic media documents are allowed to be submitted when approved by the fire code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work pro­posed and show in detail that it will conform to the provi­sions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as determined by the fire code official. 
[A] 105.4.2.1 Fire protection system shop drawings. 
Shop drawings for the fire protection system(s) shall be submitted to indicate compliance with this code and the construction documents, and shall be approved prior to the start of installation. Shop drawings shall contain all information as required by the referenced installation standards in Chapter 9. 
[A] 
105.4.3 Applicant responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the construc­tion documents include all of the fire protection require­ments and the shop drawings are complete and in compliance with the applicable codes and standards. 

[A] 
105.4.4 Approved documents. Construction docu­ments approved by the fire code official are approved with the intent that such construction documents comply in all respects with this code. Review and approval by the fire code official shall not relieve the applicant of the responsi­bility of compliance with this code. 

[A] 
105.4.4.1 Phased approval. The fire code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of part of a structure, system or operation before the con­struction documents for the whole structure, system or operation have been submitted, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit for parts of a structure, sys­tem or operation shall proceed at the holder's own risk with the building operation and without assurance that 


DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 
a permit for the entire structure, system or operation will be granted. 

[A] 
105.4.5 Corrected documents. Where field condi­tions necessitate any substantial change from the approved construction documents, the fire code official shall have the authority to require the corrected construction docu­ments to be submitted for approval. 

[A] 
105.4.6 Retention of construction documents. One set of construction documents shall be retained by the fire code official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws. One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress. 

[A] 
105.5 Revocation. The fire code official is authorized to revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code when it is found by inspection or otherwise that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the application or construction documents on which the per­mit or approval was based including, but not limited to, any one of the following: 


1. 	
The permit is used for a location or establishment other than that for which it was issued. 

2. 	
The permit is used for a condition or activity other than that listed in the permit. 

3. 	
Conditions and limitations set forth in the permit have been violated. 

4. 	
There have been any false statements or misrepresenta­tions as to the material fact in the application for permit or plans submitted or a condition of the permit. 

5. 	
The permit is used by a different person or firm than the name for which it was issued. 

6. 	
The permittee failed, refused or neglected to comply with orders or notices duly served in accordance with the provisions of this code within the time provided therein. 

7. 	
The permit was issued in error or in violation of an ordinance, regulation or this code. 


[A] 
105.6 Required operational permits. The fire code offi­cial is authorized to issue operational permits for the opera­tions set forth in Sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.46. 

[A] 
105.6.1 Aerosol products. An operational permit is required to manufacture, store or handle an aggregate quantity of Level 2 or Level 3 aerosol products in excess of 500 pounds (227 kg) net weight. 

[A] 
105.6.2 Amusement buildings. An operational permit is required to operate a special amusement building. 

[A] 
105.6.3 Aviation facilities. An operational permit is required to use a Group H or Group S occupancy for air­craft servicing or repair and aircraft fuel-servicing vehi­cles. Additional permits required by other sections of this code include, but are not limited to, hot work, hazardous materials and flammable or combustible finishes. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[A] 105.6.4 Carnivals and fairs. An operational permit is required to conduct a carnival or fair. 
[A) 105.6.5 Cellulose nitrate film. An operational permit is required to store, handle or use cellulose nitrate film in a Group A occupancy. 
[A] 
105.6.6 Combustible dust-producing operations. An operational permit is required to operate a grain eleva­tor, flour starch mill, feed mill, or a plant pulverizing alu­minum, coal, cocoa, magnesium, spices or sugar, or other operations producing combustible dusts as defined in Chapter 2. 

[A] 
105.6.7 Combustible fibers. An operational permit is required for the storage and handling of combustible fibers in quantities greater than 100 cubic feet (2.8 m3). 


Exception: A permit is not required for agricultural storage. 
[A) 105.6.8 Compressed gases. An operational permit is required for the storage, use or handling at normal temper­ature and pressure (NTP) of compressed gases in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.8. 
Exception: Vehicles equipped for and using com­pressed gas as a fuel for propelling the vehicle. 
TABLE 105.6.8 
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR COMPRESSED GASES 


TYPE OF GAS  AMOUNT (cubic feet at NTP)  
Corrosive  200  
Flammable (except cryogenic fluids and liquefied petroleum gases)  200  
Highly toxic  Any Amount  
Inert and simple asphyxiant  6,000  
Oxidizing (including oxygen)  504  
Pyrophoric  Any Amount  
Toxic  Any Amount  

For SI: I cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 
[A) 105.6.9 Covered and open mall buildings. An opera­tional permit is required for: 
1. 	
The placement of retail fixtures and displays, con­cession equipment, displays of highly combustible goods and similar items in the mall. 

2. 	
The display of liquid-or gas-fired equipment in the mall. 

3. 	
The use of open-flame or flame-producing equip­ment in the mall. 


[A) 105.6.10 Cryogenic fluids. An operational permit is required to produce, store, transport on site, use, handle or dispense cryogenic fluids in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.10. 
Exception: Permits are not required for vehicles equipped for and using cryogenic fluids as a fuel for propelling the vehicle or for refrigerating the lading. 
TABLE 1 05.6.1 0 
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

TYPE OF CRYOGENIC FLUID  INSIDE BUILDING (gallons)  OUTSIDE BUILDING (gallons)  
Flammable  More than 1  60  
Inert  60  500  
Oxidizing (includes oxygen)  10  50  
Physical or health hazard not indicated above  Any Amount  Any Amount  

For SI: I gallon= 3.785 L. 
[A] 
105.6.11 Cutting and welding. An operational permit is required to conduct cutting or welding operations within the jurisdiction. 

[A] 
105.6.12 Dry cleaning. An operational permit is required to engage in the business of dry cleaning or to change to a more hazardous cleaning solvent used in exist­ing dry cleaning equipment. 

[A] 
105.6.13 Exhibits and trade shows. An operational permit is required to operate exhibits and trade shows. 

[A] 
105.6.14 Explosives. An operational permit is required for the manufacture, storage, handling, sale or use of any quantity of explosives, explosive materials, fire­works or pyrotechnic special effects within the scope of Chapter 56. 

Exception: Storage in Group R-3 occupancies of smokeless propellant, black powder and small arms primers for personal use, not for resale and in accor­dance with Section 5606. 

[A] 
105.6.15 Fire hydrants and valves. An operational permit is required to use or operate fire hydrants or valves intended for fire suppression purposes which are installed on water systems and accessible to a fire apparatus access road that is open to or generally used by the public. 


Exception: A permit is not required for authorized employees of the water company that supplies the sys­tem or the fire department to use or operate fire hydrants or valves. 
[A] 105.6.16 Flammable and combustible liquids. An operational permit is required: 
1. 	
To use or operate a pipeline for the transportation within facilities _of flammable or combustible liq­uids. This requirement shall not apply to the off­site transportation in pipelines regulated by the Department of Transportation (DOTn) nor does it apply to piping systems. 

2. 	
To store, handle or use Class I liquids in excess of 5 gallons (19 L) in a building or in excess of 10 gallons (37.9 L) outside of a building, except that a permit is not required for the following: 


2.1. The storage or use of Class I liquids in the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, aircraft, motorboat, mobile power plant or mobile heating plant, unless such storage, in the opinion of the fire code official, would cause an unsafe condition. 
2.2. 
The storage or use of paints, oils, varnishes or similar flammable mixtures when such liquids are stored for maintenance, painting or similar purposes for a period of not more than 30 days. 

3. 	
To store, handle or use Class II or Class IliA liq­uids in excess of 25 gallons (95 L) in a building or in excess of 60 gallons (227 L) outside a building, except for fuel oil used in connection with oil­burning equipment. 

4. 	
To store, handle or use Class IIIB liquids in tanks or portable tanks for fueling motor vehicles at motor fuel-dispensing facilities or where con­nected to fuel-burning equipment. 

Exception: Fuel oil and used motor oil used for space heating or water heating. 

5. 	
To remove Class I or II liquids from an under­ground storage tank used for fueling motor vehi­cles by any means other than the approved, stationary on-site pumps normally used for dis­pensing purposes. 

6. 	
To operate tank vehicles, equipment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-dispensing stations, refiner­ies, distilleries and similar facilities where flam­mable and combustible liquids are produced, processed, transported, stored, dispensed or used. 

7. 	
To place temporarily out of service (for more than 90 days) an underground, protected above-ground or above-ground flammable or combustible liquid tank. 

8. 	
To change the type of contents stored in a flamma­ble or combustible liquid tank to a material that poses a greater hazard than that for which the tank was designed and constructed. 

9. 	
To manufacture, process, blend or refine flamma­ble or combustible liquids. 

10. 	
To engage in the dispensing of liquid fuels into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles at commercial, indus­trial, governmental or manufacturing establish­ments. 

11. 	
To utilize a site for the dispensing of liquid fuels from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles, marine craft and other special equipment at commercial, industrial, governmental or manu­facturing establishments. 


[A] 
105.6.17 Floor finishing. An operational permit is required for floor finishing or surfacing operations exceed­ing 350 square feet (33 m2) using Class I or Class II liq­uids. 

[A] 
105.6.18 Fruit and crop ripening. An operational permit is required to operate a fruit-or crop-ripening facil­ity or conduct a fruit-ripening process using ethylene gas. 

[A] 
105.6.19 Fumigation and insecticidal fogging. An operational permit is required to operate a business of fumigation or insecticidal fogging, and to maintain a 


DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 
room, vault or chamber in which a toxic or flammable fumigant is used. 
[A] 
105.6.20 Hazardous materials. An operational per­mit is required to store, transport on site, dispense, use or handle hazardous materials in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.20. 

[A] 
105.6.21 HPM facilities. An operational permit is required to store, handle or use hazardous production materials. 

[A] 
105.6.22 High-piled storage. An operational permit is required to use a building or portion thereof as a high­piled storage area exceeding 500 square feet (46m2). 

[A] 
105.6.23 Hot work operations. An operational permit is required for hot work including, but not limited to: 


1. 	
Public exhibitions and demonstrations where hot work is conducted. 

2. 	
Use of portable hot work equipment inside a struc­ture. 

Exception: Work that is conducted under a con­struction permit. 

3. 	
Fixed-site hot work equipment, such as welding booths. 

4. 
Hot work conducted within a wildfire risk area. 

5. 	
Application of roof coverings with the use of an open-flame device. 

6. 	
When approved, the fire code official shall issue a permit to carry out a hot work program. This pro­gram allows approved personnel to regulate their facility's hot work operations. The approved person­nel shall be trained in the fire safety aspects denoted in this chapter and shall be responsible for issuing permits requiring compliance with the requirements found in Chapter 35. These permits shall be issued only to their employees or hot work operations under their supervision. 



[A] 105.6.24 Industrial ovens. An operational permit is required for operation of industrial ovens regulated by Chapter 30. 
[A] 105.6.25 Lumber yards and woodworking plants. 
An operational permit is required for the storage or pro­cessing of lumber exceeding 100,000 board feet (8,333 ft3) (236m3). 
[A] 
105.6.26 Liquid-or gas-fueled vehicles or equip­ment in assembly buildings. An operational permit is required to display, operate or demonstrate liquid-or gas­fueled vehicles or equipment in assembly buildings. 

[A] 
105.6.27 LP-gas. An operational permit is required for: 


1. 	Storage and use of LP-gas. 
Exception: A permit is not required for individual containers with a 500-gallon (1893 L) water capacity or less or multiple container systems having an aggre­gate quantity not exceeding 500 gallons (1893 L), serving occupancies in Group R-3. 
2. Operation of cargo tankers that transport LP-gas. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 105.6.20 
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 


TYPE OF MATERIAL  AMOUNT  
Combustible liquids  See Section 105.6.16  
Corrosive materials  
Gases  See Section 105.6.8  
Liquids  55 gallons  
Solids  500pounds  
Explosive materials  See Section 105.6.14  
Flammable materials  
Gases  See Section 105.6.8  
Liquids  See Section 105.6.16  
Solids  100 pounds  
Highly toxic materials  
Gases  See Section 105.6.8  
Liquids  Any Amount  
Solids  Any Amount  
Oxidizing materials  
Gases  See Section 105.6.8  
Liquids  
Class 4  Any Amount  
Class 3  1 gallon•  
Class 2  10 gallons  
Class 1  55 gallons  
Solids  
Class 4  Any Amount  
Class 3  10 poundsb  
Class 2  100 pounds  
Class 1  500 pounds  
Organic peroxides  
Liquids  
Class I  Any Amount  
Class II  Any Amount  
Class III  1 gallon  
Class IV  2 gallons  
Class V  No Permit Required  
Solids  
Class I  Any Amount  
Class II  Any Amount  
Class III  10 pounds  
Class IV  20 pounds  
Class V  No Permit Required  
Pyrophoric materials  
Gases  Any Amount  
Liquids  Any Amount  
Solids  Any Amount  
Toxic materials  
Gases  See Section 105.6.8  
Liquids  10 gallons  
Solids  100 pounds  
Unstable (reactive) materials  
Liquids  
Class 4  Any Amount  
Class 3  Any Amount  
Class 2  5 gallons  
Class 1  10 gallons  
Solids  
Class 4  Any Amount  
Class 3  Any Amount  
Class 2  50 pounds  
Class 1  100 pounds  

TABLE 1 05.6.20-continued 
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 

TYPE OF MATERIAL AMOUNT 
Water-reactive materials Liquids Class 3 
Any Amount Class 2 
5 gallons 
Class 1 

55 gallons 
Solids 
Class 3 

Any Amount Class 2 
50 pounds 
Class I 

500 pounds 

For SI: I gallon= 3.785 L, I pound= 0.454 kg. 
a. 	
20 gallons when Table 5003.1.1(1) Note k applies and hazard identification signs in accordance with Section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of 20 gallons or less. 

b. 	
200 pounds when Table 5003.1.1(1) Note k applies and hazard identification signs in accordance with Section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of 200 pounds or less. 

[A] 
105.6.28 Magnesium. An operational permit is required to melt, cast, heat treat or grind more than 10 pounds ( 4.54 kg) of magnesium. 

[A] 
105.6.29 Miscellaneous combustible storage. An operational permit is required to store in any building or upon any premises in excess of 2,500 cubic feet (71 m3) gross volume of combustible empty packing cases, boxes, barrels or similar containers, rubber tires, rubber, cork or similar combustible material. 

[A] 
105.6.30 Open burning. An operational permit is required for the kindling or maintaining of an open fire or a fire on any public street, alley, road, or other public or private ground. Instructions and stipulations of the permit shall be adhered to. 

Exception: Recreational fires. 

[A] 
105.6.31 Open flames and torches. An operational permit is required to remove paint with a torch; or to use a torch or open-flame device in a wildfire risk area. 

[A] 
105.6.32 Open flames and candles. An operational permit is required to use open flames or candles in connec­tion with assembly areas, dining areas of restaurants or drinking establishments. 

[A] 
105.6.33 Organic coatings. An operational permit is required for any organic-coating manufacturing operation producing more than 1 gallon (4 L) of an organic coating in one day. 

[A] 
105.6.34 Places of assembly. An operational permit is required to operate a place of assembly. 

[A] 
105.6.35 Private fire hydrants. An operational per­mit is required for the removal from service, use or opera­tion of private fire hydrants. 

Exception: A permit is not required for private indus­try with trained maintenance personnel, private fire bri­gade or fire departments to maintain, test and use private hydrants. 

[A] 
105.6.36 Pyrotechnic special effects material. An operational permit is required for use and handling of pyrotechnic special effects material. 


(continued) 
[A] 
105.6.37 Pyroxylin plastics. An operational permit is required for storage or handling of more than 25 pounds (11 kg) of cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastics, and for the assembly or manufacture of articles involving pyroxylin plastics. 

[A] 
105.6.38 Refrigeration equipment. An operational permit is required to operate a mechanical refrigeration unit or system regulated by Chapter 6. 

[A] 
105.6.39 Repair garages and motor fuel-dispensing facilities. An operational permit is required for operation of repair garages, and automotive, marine and fleet motor fuel-dispensing facilities. 

[A] 
105.6.40 Rooftop heliports. An operational permit is required for the operation of a rooftop heliport. 

[A] 
105.6.41 Spraying or dipping. An operational permit is required to conduct a spraying or dipping operation uti­lizing flammable or combustible liquids, or the application of combustible powders regulated by Chapter 24. 

[A] 
105.6.42 Storage of scrap tires and tire byproducts. An operational permit is required to establish, conduct or maintain storage of scrap tires and tire byproducts that exceeds 2,500 cubic feet (71 m3) of total volume of scrap tires, and for indoor storage of tires and tire byproducts. 

[A] 
105.6.43 Temporary membrane structures and tents. An operational permit is required to operate an air­supported temporary membrane structure or a tent having an area in excess of 400 square feet (37 m2). 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes. 

2. 	
Tents open on all sides, which comply with all of the following: 


2.1. Individual tents having a maximum size of 700 square feet (65m2). 
2.2. The 	aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without a fire break clearance of not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) shall not exceed 700 square feet (65 m2) total. 
2.3. A minimum clearance of 	12 feet (3658 mm) to structures and other tents shall be provided. 
[A] 
105.6.44 Tire-rebuilding plants. An operational per­mit is required for the operation and maintenance of a tire­rebuilding plant. 

[A] 
105.6.45 Waste handling. An operational permit is required for the operation of wrecking yards, junk yards and waste material-handling facilities. 

[A] 
105.6.46 Wood products. An operational permit is required to store chips, hogged material, lumber or ply­wood in excess of 200 cubic feet (6m3). 


105.6.47 Additional permits. In addition to the permits required by Section /05.6, the following permits shall be obtained from the Bureau of Fire Prevention prior to 
DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 

engaging in the following activities, operations, practices or functions: 
1. 	
Production facilities. To change use or occupancy, or allow the attendance of a live audience, or for wrap parties. 

2. 	
Pyrotechnics and special effects. To use pyrotech­nic special effects, open flame, use offlammable or combustible liquids and gases, welding, and the parking of motor vehicles in any building or loca­tion used for the purpose of motion picture, televi­sion and commercial production. 

3. 	
Live audiences. To install seating arrangements for live audiences in approved production facilities, production studios and sound stages. See Chapter 


48. 

[A] 
105.7 Required construction permits. The fire code official is authorized to issue construction permits for work as set forth in Sections 105.7.1 through 105.7.16. 

[A] 
105.7.1 Automatic fire-extinguishing systems. A construction permit is required for installation of or modi­fication to an automatic fire-extinguishing system. Main­tenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 

[A] 
105.7.2 Battery systems. A permit is required to install stationary storage battery systems having a liquid capacity of more than 50 gallons (189 L). 

[A] 
105.7.3 Compressed gases. When the compressed gases in use or storage exceed the amounts listed in Table 105.6.8, a construction permit is required to install, repair damage to, abandon, remove, place temporarily out of ser­vice, or close or substantially modify a compressed gas system. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Routine maintenance. 

2. 	
For emergency repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commence­ment of work. 



[A] 
105.7.4 Cryogenic fluids. A construction permit is required for installation of or alteration to outdoor station­ary cryogenic fluid storage systems where the system capacity exceeds the amounts listed in Table 105.6.10. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered an alteration and does not require a con­struction permit. 

[A] 
105.7.5 Emergency responder radio coverage sys­tem. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to emergency responder radio coverage systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 

[A] 
105.7.6 Fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 
[A] 
105.7.7 Fire pumps and related equipment. A con­struction permit is required for installation of or modifica­tion to fire pumps and related fuel tanks, jockey pumps, controllers and generators. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 

[A] 
105.7.8 Flammable and combustible liquids. A con­struction permit is required: 


1. 	
To install, repair or modify a pipeline for the trans­portation of flammable or combustible liquids. 

2. 	
To install, construct or alter tank vehicles, equip­ment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-dispensing stations, refineries, distilleries and similar facilities where flammable and combustible liquids are pro­duced, processed, transported, stored, dispensed or used. 

3. 	
To install, alter, remove, abandon or otherwise dis­pose of a flammable or combustible liquid tank. 


[A] 105.7.9 Hazardous materials. A construction permit is required to install, repair damage to, abandon, remove, place temporarily out of service, or close or substantially modify a storage facility or other area regulated by Chap­ter 50 when the hazardous materials in use or storage exceed the amounts listed in Table 105.6.20. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Routine maintenance. 

2. 	
For emergency repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commence­ment of work. 



[A] 105.7.10 Industrial ovens. A construction permit is required for installation of industrial ovens covered by Chapter 30. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Routine maintenance. 

2. 	
For repair work performed on an emergency basis, application for permit shall be made within two working days of commencement of work. 



[A] 
105.7.11 LP-gas. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to an LP-gas system. 

[A] 
105.7.12 Private fire hydrants. A construction per­mit is required for the installation or modification of pri­vate fire hydrants. 

[A] 
105.7.13 Solar photovoltaic power systems. A con­struction permit is required to install or modify solar pho­tovoltaic power systems. 

[A] 
105.7.14 Spraying or dipping. A construction permit is required to install or modify a spray room, dip tank or booth. 

[A] 
105.7.15 Standpipe systems. A construction permit is required for the installation, modification or removal from service of a standpipe system. Maintenance performed in 


accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 
[A] 105.7.16 Temporary membrane structures and tents. A construction permit is required to erect an air-sup­ported temporary membrane structure or a tent having an area in excess of 400 square feet (37 m2). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes. 

2. 	
Funeral tents and curtains, or extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services. 

3. 	
Tents and awnings open on all sides, which com­ply with all of the following: 


3.1. Individual 	tents shall have a maximum size of 700 square feet (65 m2). 
3.2. The 	aggregate area of multiple tents placed side by side without a fire break clearance of not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) shall not exceed 700 square feet (65 m2) total. 
3.3. A minimum clearance of 	12 feet (3658 mm) to structures and other tents shall be maintained. 
SECTION 106 
INSPECTIONS 


[A] 106.1 Inspection authority. The fire code official is authorized to enter and examine any building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle or premises in accordance with Section 
104.3 for the purpose of enforcing this code. 
[A] 
106.2 Inspections. The fire code official is authorized to conduct such inspections as are deemed necessary to deter­mine the extent of compliance with the provisions of this code and to approve reports of inspection by approved agen­cies or individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be prepared and submitted in writing for review and approval. Inspection reports shall be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The fire code official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual, detailed or complex technical issues subject to the approval of the governing body. 

[A] 
106.2.1 Inspection requests. It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the fire code official when work is ready for inspec­tion. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code. 

[A] 
106.2.2 Approval required. Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the fire code offi­cial. The fire code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the por­tion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the 


same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected, and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the fire code official. 

[A] 
106.3 Concealed work. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Whenever any installation subject to inspection prior to use is covered or concealed without hav­ing first been inspected, the fire code official shall have the authority to require that such work be exposed for inspection. Neither the fire code official nor the jurisdiction shall be lia­ble for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection. 

[A] 
106.4 Approvals. Approval as the result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdic­tion. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. 


SECTION 107 MAINTENANCE 

[A] 
107.1 Maintenance of safeguards. Whenever or wher­ever any device, equipment, system, condition, arrangement, level of protection, or any other feature is required for com­pliance with the provisions of this code, or otherwise installed, such device, equipment, system, condition, arrange­ment, level of protection, or other feature shall thereafter be continuously maintained in accordance with this code and applicable referenced standards. 

[A] 
107.2 Testing and operation. Equipment requiring peri­odic testing or operation to ensure maintenance shall be tested or operated as specified in this code. 

[A] 
107.2.1 Test and inspection records. Required test and inspection records shall be available to the fire code official at all times or such records as the fire code official designates shall be filed with the fire code official. 

[A] 
107.2.2 Reinspection and testing. Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve com­pliance with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the fire code official for inspection and testing. 


[A] 
107.3 Supervision. Maintenance and testing shall be under the supervision of a responsible person who shall ensure that such maintenance and testing are conducted at specified intervals in accordance with this code. 

[A] 
107.4 Rendering equipment inoperable. Portable or fixed fire-extinguishing systems or devices, and fire-warning systems, shall not be rendered inoperative or inaccessible, except as necessary during emergencies, maintenance, repairs, alterations, drills or prescribed testing. 

[A] 
107.5 Overcrowding. Overcrowding or admittance of


* 
any person beyond the approved capacity of a building or a 
portion thereof shall not be allowed. The fire code official, 
upon finding any overcrowding conditions or obstructions in 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 

aisles, passageways or other means of egress, or upon finding any condition which constitutes a life safety hazard, shall be authorized to cause the event to be stopped until such condi­tion or obstruction is corrected. 
SECTION 108 BOARD OF APPEALS 

[A] 
108.1 Board of appeals established. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire code official relative to the application and inter­pretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the governing body and shall hold office at its pleasure. The fire code official shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its busi­ness, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code official. 

[A] 
108.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the intent of this code or the rules legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent method of protection or safety is proposed. The board shall have no authority to waive requirements of this code. 

[A] 
108.3 Qualifications. The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to hazards of fire, explosions, haz­ardous conditions or fire protection systems, and are not employees of the jurisdiction. 


SECTION 109 VIOLATIONS 

[A] 109.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a building, occupancy, premises or system regulated by this code, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code. 
** 

[A] 
109.2 Owner/occupant responsibility. Correction and abatement of violations of this code shall be the responsibility of the owner. If an occupant creates, or allows to be created, hazardous conditions in violation of this code, the occupant shall be held responsible for the abatement of such hazardous conditions. 

[A] 
109.3 Notice of violation. When the fire code official finds a building, premises, vehicle, storage facility or outdoor area that is in violation of this code, the fire code official is authorized to prepare a written notice of violation describing the conditions deemed unsafe and, when compliance is not immediate, specifying a time for reinspection. 

[A] 
109.3.1 Service. A notice of violation issued pursuant to this code shall be served upon the owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the condition or violation, either by personal service, mail or by delivering the same to, and leaving it with, some person of responsi­bility upon the premises. For unattended or abandoned 


locations, a copy of such notice of violation shall be posted on the premises in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to such premises and the notice of violation shall be mailed by certified mail with return receipt requested or a certificate of mailing, to the last known address of the owner, occupant or both. 
[A] 
109.3.2 Compliance with orders and notices. A notice of violation issued or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by the owner, operator, occu­pant or other person responsible for the condition or viola­tion to which the notice of violation pertains. 

[A] 
109.3.3 Prosecution of violations. If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the fire code offi­cial is authorized to request the legal counsel of the juris­diction to institute the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation or to require removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant hereto. 

[A] 
109.3.4 Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the fire code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed, with­out authorization from the fire code official. 

[A] 
109.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certifi­cate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], punishable by a fine of not more than [AMOUNT] dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUM­BER OF DAYS], or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense. 

[A] 
109.4.1 Abatement of violation. In addition to the imposition of the penalties herein described, the fire code official is authorized to institute appropriate action to pre­vent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a structure or premises; or to stop an illegal act, conduct of business or occupancy of a structure on or about any premises. 


SECTION 110 
UNSAFE BUILDINGS 


[A] 
110.1 General. If during the inspection of a premises, a building or structure, or any building system, in whole or in part, constitutes a clear and inimical threat to human life, safety or health, the fire code official shall issue such notice or orders to remove or remedy the conditions as shall be deemed necessary in accordance with this section, and shall refer the building to the building department for any repairs, alterations, remodeling, removing or demolition required. 

[A] 
110.1.1 Unsafe conditions. Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe or deficient because of inadequate means of egress or which constitute 


a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. A vacant structure which is not secured against unauthorized entry as required by Section 311 shall be deemed unsafe. 
[A] 110.1.2 Structural hazards. When an apparent struc­tural hazard is caused by the faulty installation, operation or malfunction of any of the items or devices governed by this code, the fire code official shall immediately notify the building code official in accordance with Section 
11 0.1. 
[A] 
110.2 Evacuation. The fire code official or the fire department official in charge of an incident shall be autho­rized to order the immediate evacuation of any occupied building deemed unsafe when such building has hazardous conditions that present imminent danger to building occu­pants. Persons so notified shall immediately leave the struc­ture or premises and shall not enter or re-enter until authorized to do so by the fire code official or the fire depart­ment official in charge of the incident. 

[A] 
110.3 Summary abatement. Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to life and property, the fire code offi­cial or fire department official in charge of the incident is authorized to abate summarily such hazardous conditions that are in violation of this code. 

[A] 
110.4 Abatement. The owner, operator or occupant of a building or premises deemed unsafe by the fire code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. 


SECTION 111 
STOP WORK ORDER 


[A] 
111.1 Order. Whenever the fire code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code, or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the fire code official is authorized to issue a stop work order. 

[A] 
111.2 Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume. 

[A] 
111.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the fire code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. 

[A] 
111.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to pe1form to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than [AMOUNT] dollars or more than [AMOUNT] dollars. 


DIVISION II ADMINISTRATION 
SECTION 112 
SERVICE UTILITIES 


[A] 112.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The fire code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnec­tion of utility service to the building, structure or system in order to safely execute emergency operations or to eliminate an immediate hazard. The fire code official shall notify the serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner and occu­pant of the building, structure or service system of the deci­sion to disconnect prior to taking such action if not notified prior to disconnection. The owner or occupant of the build­ing, structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter. 
SECTION 113 
FEES 


[A] 
113.1 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid. 

[A] 
113.2 Schedule of permit fees. A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing authority. 

[A] 
113.3 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences any work, activity or operation regu­lated by this code before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to an additional fee established by the appli­cable governing authority, which shall be in addition to the required permit fees. 

[A] 
113.4 Related fees. The payment of the fee for the con­struction, alteration, removal or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity autho­rized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law. 

[A] 
113.5 Refunds. The applicable governing authority is authorized to establish a refund policy. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 2 -DEFINITIONS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

(continued) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 2 -DEFINITIONS-continued 
> 
> 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section Group Home High-Rise Building Holding Facility Housing Unit  X X X X X  X  
Mentally Retarded Persons, Pro­foundly or Severely Infant Laboratory Lodging House Nonaccessible Area Nonambulatory Persons  X X X X X X  
Residential Care Facility for the Chronically Ill (RCF/CI) Noncombustible Occupancy Classification Protective Social Care Facility  X X X  
Residential Care Facility For The Elderly (RCFE) Residential Facility (RF) Restraint  X X X  
Temporary Holding Cell, Room or Area Secure Interview Rooms Temporary Holding Facility Tenable Environment Tent [T-19 §3.10(a)-(c)] Terminally Ill Winery Caves  X X X X  X X X  

... 
. . 

* The Califorma Code of Regulatzons (CCR), T1tle 19, D1v1sJOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 2 
DEFINITIONS 
SECTION 201 GENERAL 

201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow­ing words and terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter. 
201.2 Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular. 
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the California Build­
> 	ing Code, California Mechanical Code or California Plumb­ing Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes. 
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies. Merriam Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, 11th Edi­tion, shall be considered as providing ordinarily accepted meanings. 
SECTION 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS 

[B] 
24-HOUR CARE. The actual time that a person is an occupant within a facility for the purpose of receiving care. It shall not include a facility that is open for 24 hours and is capable of providing care to someone visiting the facility dur­ing any segment of the 24 hours. 

[B] 
ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS. A continuous and unobstructed way of egress travel from any accessible point in a building or facility to a public way. 

[B] 
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE. A continuous, unobstructed path that complies with Chapter 11 of the California Building Code. 


AGED HOME OR INSTITUTION, A facility used for the housing of persons 65 years of age or older in need of care and supervision. (See definition of "care and supervision".) 
AEROSOL. A product that is dispensed from an aerosol con­tainer by a propellant. 
Aerosol products shall be classified by means of the calcu­lation of their chemical heats of combustion and shall be des­ignated Levell, Level2 or Level3. 
Level 1 aerosol products. Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is less than or equal to 8,600 Brit­ish thermal units per pound (Btullb) (20 kJ/g). 
Level 2 aerosol products. Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is greater than 8,600 Btu/lb (20 kJ/g), but less than or equal to 13,000 Btu/lb (30 kJ/g). 

Level 3 aerosol products. Those with a total chemical heat of combustion that is greater than 13,000 Btu/lb (30 kJ/g). 
AEROSOL CONTAINER. A metal can, or a glass or plastic bottle designed to dispense an aerosol. Metal cans shall be limited to a maximum size of 33.8 fluid ounces (1000 ml). Glass or plastic bottles shall be limited to a maximum size of 4 fluid ounces (118 ml). 
AEROSOL WAREHOUSE. A building used for warehous­ing aerosol products. 
AGENCY. Any emergency responder department within the jurisdiction that utilizes radio frequencies for communica­tion. This could include, but not be limited to, various public safety agencies such as fire departments, emergency medical services and law enforcement. 
AGENT. A person who shall have charge, care or control of any structure as owner, or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this code to the same extent as if that person was the owner. 
[B] 
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poul­try, livestock or other horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of employ­ment where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public. 

[B] 
AIR-INFLATED STRUCTURE. A structure that uses air-pressurized membrane beams, arches or other elements to enclose space. Occupants of such a structure do not occupy the pressurized areas used to support the structure. 

[B] 
AIR-SUPPORTED STRUCTURE. A structure wherein the shape of the structure is attained by air pressure, and occupants of the structure are within the elevated pressure area. Air supported structures are of two basic types: 


Double skin. Similar to a single skin, but with an attached liner that is separated from the outer skin and provides an airspace which serves for insulation, acoustic, aesthetic or similar purposes. 
Single skin. Where there is only the single outer skin and 
the air pressure is directly against that skin. 
AIRCRAFT MOTOR-VEHICLE FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. That portion of property where flammable or combustible liquids or gases used as motor fuels are stored and dispensed from fixed automotive-type equipment into the fuel tanks of aircraft. 
AIRCRAFT OPERATION AREA (AOA). Any area used or intended for use for the parking, taxiing, takeoff, landing or other ground-based aircraft activity. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
AIRPORT. An area of land or structural surface that is used, or intended for use, for the landing and taking off of aircraft with an overall length greater than 39 feet (11 887 mm) and an overall exterior fuselage width greater than 6.6 feet (2012 mm), and any appurtenant areas that are used or intended for use for airport buildings and other airport facilities. 
[B] 
AISLE. An unenclosed exit access component that defines and provides a path of egress travel. 

[B] 
AISLE ACCESSWAY. That portion of an exit access that leads to an aisle. 


ALARM, NUISANCE. See "Nuisance alarm." 
ALARM DEVICE, MULTIPLE STATION. See "Multi­ple Station Alarm Device." 
ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. A fire alarm system component such as a bell, horn, speaker, light or text display that provides audible, tactile or visible outputs, or any combination thereof. See also "Audible Alarm Notification Appliance" or "Visible Alarm Notification Appliance." 
ALARM SIGNAL. A signal indicating an emergency requir­ing immediate action, such as a signal indicative of fire. 
ALARM VERIFICATION FEATURE. A feature of auto­matic fire detection and alarm systems to reduce unwanted alarms wherein smoke detectors report alarm conditions for a minimum period of time, or confirm alarm conditions within a given time period, after being automatically reset, in order to be accepted as a valid alarm-initiation signal. 
ALCOHOL-BASED HAND RUB. An alcohol-containing preparation designed for application to the hands for reducing the number of viable microorganisms on the hands and con­taining ethanol or isopropanol in an amount not exceeding 95-percent by volume. 
ALCOHOL-BLENDED FUELS. Flammable liquids con­sisting of 10-percent or greater, by volume, ethanol or other alcohols blended with gasoline. 
[A] ALTERATION. Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other than a repair or addition. 
[B] 
ALTERNATING TREAD DEVICE. A device that has a selies of steps between 50 and 70 degrees (0.87 and 1.22 rad) from horizontal, usually attached to a center support rail in an alternating manner so that the user does not have both feet on the same level at the same time. 

[B] 
AMBULATORY CARE FACILITY. Buildings or por­tions thereof used to provide medical, surgical, psychiatric, nursing or similar care on a less-than-24-hour basis to per­sons who are rendered incapable of self-preservation by the services provided. 


AMMONIUM NITRATE. A chemical compound repre­sented by the formula NH4N03. 
ANNUNCIATOR. A unit containing one or more indicator lamps, alphanumeric displays or other equivalent means in which each indication provides status information about a cir­cuit, condition or location. 
[A] APPROVED. Acceptable to the fire code official. 
[B] 
AREA, BUILDING. The area included within surround­ing exterior walls (or exterior walls and fire walls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts. Areas of the building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the building area if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above. 

[B] 
AREA OF REFUGE. An area where persons unable to use stairways can remain temporarily to await instructions or assistance during emergency evacuation. 


ARRAY. The configuration of storage. Characteristics con­
sidered in defining an array include the type of packaging, flue spaces, height of storage and compactness of storage. 
ARRAY, CLOSED. A storage configuration having a 6-inch 
(152 mm) or smaller width vertical flue space that restricts air 
movement through the stored commodity. 
ASSEMBLY. The gathering together of 50 or more persons for such purposes as deliberation, education, instruction, worship, entertainment, amusement, drinking, dining or awaiting transportation. < 
[B] 
ATRIUM. An opening connecting two or more stories other than enclosed stairways, elevators, hoistways, escala­tors, plumbing, electrical, air-conditioning or other equip­ment, which is closed at the top and not defined as a mall. Stories, as used in this definition, do not include balconies within assembly groups or mezzanines that comply with Sec­tion 505 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 
ATTIC. The space between the ceiling beams of the top story and the roof rafters. 


AUDIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. A 
notification appliance that alerts by the sense of hearing. 
AUTOMATED RACK STORAGE. Automated rack stor­age is a stocking method whereby the movement of pallets, products, apparatus or systems are automatically controlled by mechanical or electronic devices. 
AUTOMATIC. As applied to fire protection devices, a device or system providing an emergency function without the necessity for human intervention and activated as a result of a predetermined temperature rise, rate of temperature rise or combustion products. 
AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. An approved system of devices and equipment which automati­cally detects a fire and discharges an approved fire-extin­guishing agent onto or in the area of a fire. 
AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM. A fire alarm system that has initiation devices that utilize smoke detectors for protection of an area such as a room or space with detectors to provide early warning of fire. 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. An automatic sprinkler system, for fire protection purposes, is an integrated system of underground and overhead piping designed in accordance with fire protection engineering standards. The system includes a suitable water supply. The portion of the system above the ground is a network of specially sized or hydraulically designed piping installed in a structure or area, generally overhead, and to which automatic sprinklers are connected in a systematic pattern. The system is usually acti­vated by heat from a fire and discharges water over the fire area. 
AUTOMOTIVE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACIL­ITY. That portion of property where flammable or combusti­ble liquids or gases used as motor fuels are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. 
AVERAGE AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL. The root mean square, A-weighted sound pressure level measured over a 24­hour period, or the time any person is present, whichever time period is less. 
[B] AWNING. An architectural projection that provides weather protection, identity or decoration and is partially or wholly supported by the building to which it is attached. An awning is comprised of a lightweight frame structure over which a covering is attached. 
BALED COTTON. See "Cotton." 
BALED COTTON, DENSELY PACKED. See "Cotton." 
BARRICADE. A structure that consists of a combination of walls, floor and roof, which is designed to withstand the rapid release of energy in an explosion and which is fully confined, partially vented or fully vented; or other effective method of shielding from explosive materials by a natural or artificial barrier. 
Artificial barricade. An artificial mound or revetment with a minimum thickness of 3 feet (914 mm). 
Natural barricade. Natural features of the ground, such as hills, or timber of sufficient density that the surrounding exposures that require protection cannot be seen from the magazine or building containing explosives when the trees are bare of leaves. 

BARRICADED. The effective screening of a building con­taining explosive materials from the magazine or other build­ing, railway or highway by a natural or an artificial barrier. A straight line from the top of any sidewall of the building con­taining explosive materials to the eave line of any magazine or other building or to a point 12 feet (3658 mm) above the center of a railway or highway shall pass through such bar­rier. 
[B] BASEMENT. A story that is not a story above grade plane. 
BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY LEAD ACID. A system which consists of three interconnected subsystems: 
1. 	
A lead-acid battery. 

2. 	
A battery charger. 

3. 
A 	collection of rectifiers, inverters, converters and associated electrical equipment as required for a partic­ular application. 



BATTERY TYPES. 
Lithium-ion battery. A storage battery that consists of lithium ions embedded in a carbon graphite or nickel metal-oxide substrate. The electrolyte is a carbonate mix­ture or a gelled polymer. The lithium ions are the charge carriers of the battery. 
DEFINITIONS 

Lithium metal polymer battery. A storage battery that is comprised of nonaqueous liquid or polymerized electro­lytes, which provide ionic conductivity between lithiated positive active material electrically separated from metal­lic lithium or lithiated negative active material. 
Nickel cadmium (Ni-Cd) battery. An alkaline storage battery in which the positive active material is nickel oxide, the negative contains cadmium and the electrolyte is potassium hydroxide. 
Nonrecombinant battery. A storage battery in which, under conditions of normal use, hydrogen and oxygen gas­ses created by electrolysis are vented into the air outside of the battery. 
Recombinant battery. A storage battery in which, under conditions of normal use, hydrogen and oxygen gases cre­ated by electrolysis are converted back into water inside the battery instead of venting into the air outside of the battery. 
Stationary storage battery. A group of electrochemical cells interconnected to supply a nominal voltage of DC power to a suitably connected electrical load, designed for service in a permanent location. The number of cells con­nected in a series determines the nominal voltage rating of the battery. The size of the cells determines the discharge capacity of the entire battery. After discharge, it may be restored to a fully charged condition by an electric current flowing in a direction opposite to the flow of current when the battery is discharged. 
Valve-regulated lead-acid (VRLA) battery. A lead-acid battery consisting of sealed cells furnished with a valve that opens to vent the battery whenever the internal pres­sure of the battery exceeds the ambient pressure by a set amount. In VRLA batteries, the liquid electrolyte in the cells is immobilized in an absorptive glass mat (AGM cells or batteries) or by the addition of a gelling agent (gel cells or gelled batteries). 
Vented (flooded) lead-acid battery. A lead-acid battery consisting of cells that have electrodes immersed in liquid electrolyte. Flooded lead-acid batteries have a provision for the user to add water to the cell and are equipped with a flame-arresting vent which permits the escape of hydro­gen and oxygen gas from the cell in a diffused manner such that a spark, or other ignition source, outside the cell will not ignite the gases inside the cell. 
BEDRIDDEN PERSON. A person, requiring assistance in 
turning and repositioning in bed, or being unable to indepen­
dently transfer to and from bed, except in facilities with 
appropriate and sufficient care staff, mechanical devices if 
necessary, and safety precautions as determined in Title 22 
regulations, by the Director of Social Services or his or her 
designated representative. Persons who are unable to inde­
pendently transfer to and from bed, but who do not need 
assistance to turn or reposition in bed, shall be considered 
nonambulatory. 
The Director of Social Services or his or her designated representative shall make the determination of the bedridden status ofpersons with developmental disabilities, in consulta­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
tion with the Director of Developmental Services or his or her designated representative. 
The Director of Social Services or his or her designated representative shall make the determination of the bedridden status ofall other persons with disabilities who are not devel­opmentally disabled. 
BIN BOX. A five-sided container with the open side facing an aisle. Bin boxes are self-supporting or suppmted by a structure designed so that little or no horizontal or vertical space exists around the boxes. 
BLAST AREA. The area including the blast site and the immediate adjacent area within the influence of flying rock, missiles and concussion. 
BLAST SITE. The area in which explosive materials are being or have been loaded and which includes all holes loaded or to be loaded for the same blast and a distance of 50 feet (15 240 mm) in all directions. 
BLASTER. A person qualified in accordance with Section 3301.4 to be in charge of and responsible for the loading and firing of a blast. 
BLASTING AGENT. A material or mixture consisting of fuel and oxidizer, intended for blasting provided that the fin­ished product, as mixed for use or shipment, cannot be deto­nated by means of a No. 8 test detonator when unconfined. Blasting agents are labeled and placarded as Class 1.5 mate­rial by US DOTn. 
[B] 
BLEACHERS. Tiered seating supported on a dedicated structural system and two or more rows high and is not a building element (see "Grandstands"). 

[B] 
BOARDING HOUSE. A building arranged or used for lodging for compensation, with or without meals, and not occupied as a single-family unit. 


BOILING POINT. The temperature at which the vapor pres­sure of a liquid equals the atmospheric pressure of 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute (psia) (101 kPa) or 760 mm of mercury. Where an accurate boiling point is unavailable for the material in question, or for mixtures which do not have a constant boiling point, for the purposes of this classifi­cation, the 20-percent evaporated point of a distillation per­formed in accordance with ASTM D 86 shall be used as the boiling point of the liquid. 
BONFIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes. 
BRITISH THERMAL UNIT (BTU). The heat necessary to raise the temperature of 1 pound (0.454 kg) of water by 1 op (0.5565°C). 
[A] BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for support­ing or sheltering any use or occupancy. 
BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy. 
Note: Building shall have the same meaning as defined in 
Health and Safety Code Sections 17920 and 18908for the 
applications specified in Section 1.11. 
[B] BUILDING AREA. See "Area, Building." 
[B] BUILDING HEIGHT. See "Height, Building." 
[A] BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of the California Building Code, or a duly authorized represen­tative. 
.. 

BULK OXYGEN SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment, such as oxygen storage containers, pressure regulators, safety devices, vaporizers, manifolds and interconnecting piping, that has a storage capacity of more than 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3) of oxygen at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) including unconnected reserves on hand at the site. The bulk oxygen system terminates at the point where oxy­gen at service pressure first enters the supply line. The oxy­gen containers can be stationary or movable, and the oxygen can be stored as a gas or liquid. 
BULK PLANT OR TERMINAL. That portion of a prop­erty where flammable or combustible liquids are received by tank vessel, pipelines, tank car or tank vehicle and are stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank vessel, pipeline, tank car, tank vehicle, portable tank or container. 
BULK TRANSFER. The loading or unloading of flammable or combustible liquids from or between tank vehicles, tank cars or storage tanks. 
BULLET RESISTANT. Constructed so as to resist penetra­tion of a bullet of 150-grain M2 ball ammunition having a nominal muzzle velocity of 2,700 feet per second (fps) (824 mps) when fired from a 30-caliber rifle at a distance of 100 feet (30 480 mm), measured perpendicular to the target. 
CANOPY. A structure or architectural projection of rigid construction over which a covering is attached that provides weather protection, identity or decoration, and may be struc­turally independent or supported by attachment to a building on one end and by not less than one stanchion on the outer end. 
CARBON DIOXIDE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. A system supplying carbon dioxide (C02) from a pressurized vessel through fixed pipes and nozzles. The system includes a manual-or automatic-actuating mechanism. 
CARE AND SUPERVISION. Any one or more ofthe follow­ing activities provided by a person or facility to meet the needs ofthe clients: 
Assistance in dressing, grooming, bathing and other per­
sonal hygiene. 

Assistance with taking medication. 
Central storing and/or distribution ofmedications. 
Arrangement of and assistance with medical and dental 
care. 

Maintenance ofhouse rules for the protection ofclients. 
Supervision ofclient schedules and activities. 
Maintenance and/or supervision of client cash resources 
or property. 

Monitoring food intake or special diets. 
Providing basic services required by applicable law and regulation to be provided by the licensee in order to obtain and maintain a community-care facility license. 

[B] CARE SUITE. A group of treatment rooms, care recipi­ent sleeping rooms and their associated support rooms or spaces and circulation space within Group I-2 occupancies where staff are in attendance for supervision of all care recip­ients within the suite, and the suite is in compliance with the requirements of Section 1407.4.3 of the California Building Code. 
CARTON. A cardboard or fiberboard box enclosing a prod­uct. 
CATASTROPHICALLY INJURED. As termed, means a person whose origin of disability was acquired through trauma or nondegenerative neurologic illness, for whom it has been determined by the Department of Health Services Certification and Licensing that active rehabilitation would be beneficial. 
CEILING LIMIT. The maximum concentration of an air­borne contaminant to which one may be exposed. The ceiling limits utilized are those published in DOL 29 CPR Part 1910.1000. The ceiling Recommended Exposure Limit (REL-C) concentrations published by the U.S. National Insti­tute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Threshold Limit Value-Ceiling (TL V -C) concentrations published by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), Ceiling Workplace Environmental Exposure Level (WEEL-Ceiling) Guides published by the American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA), and other approved, consistent measures are allowed as surrogates for hazardous substances not listed in DOL 29 CPR Part 1910.1000. 
CELL. (Detention or correctional facility). A sleeping or housing unit in a detention or correctional facility for the confinement ofnot more than two inmates or prisoners. 
CELL COMPLEX. A cluster or group ofcells or dormitories in a jail, prison or other detention facility, together with rooms used for accessory purposes, all ofwhich open into the cell complex, and are used for functions such as dining, coun­seling, exercise, classrooms, sick call, visiting, storage, staff offices, control rooms or similar functions, and interconnect­ing corridors all within the cell complex. 
CELL TIERS. Cells, dormitories and accessory spaces. Cell tiers are located one level above the other, and do not exceed two levels perfloor. A cell tier shall not be considered a story or mezzanine. 
[EB] CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY. A change in the pur­pose or level of activity within a building that involves a change in application of the requirements of this code. 
CHARTER SCHOOL. A Charter School is a public school providing instruction from kindergarten through 12th grade, established pursuant to Education Code, Title 2, Division 4, Part 26.8, Section 47600, et seq. 
CHEMICAL. An element, chemical compound or mixture of elements or compounds or both. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE DEFINITIONS 
CHEMICAL NAME. The scientific designation of a chemi­cal in accordance with the nomenclature system developed by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, the Chemical Abstracts Service rules of nomenclature, or a name which will clearly identify a chemical for the purpose of con­ducting an evaluation. 
•

CHILD-CARE CENTER. Any facility of any capacity other than a large or small family day-care home as defined in these regulations in which less than 24-hour-per-day non­medical supervision is provided for children in a group set­ting. 
CHILD OR CHILDREN. A person or persons under the age of18 years. 
[M] CHIMNEY. A primarily vertical enclosure containing one or more passageways for conveying flue gases to the out­side atmosphere. 
CHRONICALLY ILL. See "Terminally ill." 
CLEAN AGENT. Electrically nonconducting, volatile or gaseous fire extinguishant that does not leave a residue upon evaporation. 
[B] CLINIC-OUTPATIENT. Buildings or portions thereof used to provide medical care on a less-than-24-hour basis to persons who are not classified as non-ambulatory or bedrid­den or rendered incapable of self-preservation by the services provided. 
CLOSED CONTAINER. A container sealed by means of a lid or other device such that liquid, vapor or dusts will not escape from it under ordinary conditions of use or handling. 
CLOSED SYSTEM. The use of a solid or liquid hazardous material involving a closed vessel or system that remains closed during normal operations where vapors emitted by the product are not liberated outside of the vessel or system and the product is not exposed to the atmosphere during normal operations; and all uses of compressed gases. Examples of closed systems for solids and liquids include product con­veyed through a piping system into a closed vessel, system or piece of equipment. 
COLD DECK. A pile of unfinished cut logs. 
COMBUSTIBLE DUST. Finely divided solid material which is 420 microns or less in diameter and which, when dispersed in air in the proper proportions, could be ignited by a flame, spark or other source of ignition. Combustible dust will pass through a U.S. No. 40 standard sieve. 
COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS. Readily ignitable and free-burn­ing materials in a fibrous or shredded form, such as cocoa fiber, cloth, cotton, excelsior, hay, hemp, henequen, istle, jute, kapok, oakum, rags, sisal, Spanish moss, straw, tow, wastepaper, certain synthetic fibers or other like materials. This definition does not include densely packed baled cotton. 
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID. A liquid having a closed cup flash point at or above l00°F (38°C). Combustible liquids shall be subdivided as follows: 
Class II. Liquids having a closed cup flash point at or above l00°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C). 
Class IliA. Liquids having a closed cup flash point at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C). 
Class IIIB. Liquids having closed cup flash points at or above 200°F (93°C). 
The category of combustible liquids does not include com­pressed gases or cryogenic fluids. 
[M] COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES. Appli­ances used in a commercial food service establishment for heating or cooking food and which produce grease vapors, steam, fumes, smoke or odors that are required to be removed through a local exhaust ventilation system. Such appliances include deep fat fryers, upright broilers, griddles, broilers, steam-jacketed kettles, hot-top ranges, under-fired broilers (charbroilers), ovens, barbecues, rotisseries, and similar appliances. For the purpose of this definition, a food service establishment shall include any building or a portion thereof used for the preparation and serving of food. 
COMMODITY. A combination of products, packing materi­als and containers. 
[B) COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL. That por­tion of exit access which the occupants are required to tra­verse before two separate and distinct paths of egress travel to two exits are available. Paths that merge are common paths of travel. Common paths of egress travel shall be included within the permitted travel distance. 
COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY. Community care facility means any facility, place, or building that is maintained and operated to provide nonmedical residential care, day treat­ment, adult day care, or foster family agency services for children, adults, or children and adults, including, but not limited to, the physically handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, and abused or neglected children, and includes the following as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1502: 
1. 	
Residential facility. 

2. 	
Adult day program. 

3. 	
Therapeutic day services facility. 

4. 	
Foster family agency. 

5. 	
Foster family home. 

6. 	
Small family home. 

7. 	
Social rehabilitation facility. 

8. 	
Community treatment facility. 

9. 	
Full-service adoption agency. 

10. 
Noncustodial adoption agency. 

11. 
Transitional shelter care facility. 

12. 
Transitional housing placement facility. 


COMPRESSED GAS. A material, or mixture of materials which: 
1. 	
Is a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) of pressure; and 

2. 	
Has a boiling point of 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) which is either liquefied, nonliquefied or in solution, except those gases which have no other 


health-or physical-hazard properties are not considered to be compressed until the pressure in the packaging exceeds 41 psia (28 kPa) at 68°F (20°C). 
The states of a compressed gas are categorized as follows: 
1. 	
Nonliquefied compressed gases are gases, other than those in solution, which are in a packaging under the charged pressure and are entirely gaseous at a tem­perature of 68°F (20°C). 

2. 	
Liquefied compressed gases are gases that, in a packaging under the charged pressure, are partially liquid at a temperature of 68°F (20°C). 

3. 	
Compressed gases in solution are nonliquefied gases that are dissolved in a solvent. 

4. 	
Compressed gas mixtures consist of a mixture of two or more compressed gases contained in a pack­aging, the hazard properties of which are repre­sented by the properties of the mixture as a whole. 


COMPRESSED GAS CONTAINER. A pressure vessel designed to hold compressed gases at pressures greater than one atmosphere at 68°F (20°C) and includes cylinders, con­tainers and tanks. 
COMPRESSED GAS SYSTEM. An assembly of equip­ment designed to contain, distribute or transport compressed gases. It can consist of a compressed gas container or contain­ers, reactors and appurtenances, including pumps, compres­sors and connecting piping and tubing. 
<

CONGREGATE LIVING HEALTH FACILITY (CLHF). A residential home with a capacity of no more than six beds, which provides inpatient care, including the following basic services: medical supervision, 24-hour skilled nursing and supportive care, pharmacy, dietary, social recreational, and at least provides services for persons who are diagnosed with a terminal illness or who are catastrophically and severely disabled. 
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE. Any building or portion thereof that contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanita­tion, as required by this code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a family. A congregate residence may be a shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or lodging houses. 
CONSTANTLY ATTENDED LOCATION. A designated location at a facility staffed by trained personnel on a contin­uous basis where alarm or supervisory signals are monitored and facilities are provided for notification of the fire depart­ment or other emergency services. 
[A] CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. The written, graphic and pictorial documents prepared or assembled for describing the design, location and physical characteristics of the elements of the project necessary for obtaining a permit. 
CONTAINER. A vessel of 60 gallons (227 L) or less in capacity used for transporting or storing hazardous materials. Pipes, piping systems, engines and engine fuel tanks are not considered to be containers. 
CONTAINMENT SYSTEM. A gas-tight recovery system comprised of equipment or devices which can be placed over a leak in a compressed gas container, thereby stopping or controlling the escape of gas from the leaking container. 
CONTAINMENT VESSEL. A gas-tight recovery vessel designed so that a leaking compressed gas container can be placed within its confines thereby encapsulating the leaking container. 
CONTINUOUS GAS DETECTION SYSTEM. A gas detection system where the analytical instrument is main­tained in continuous operation and sampling is performed without interruption. Analysis is allowed to be performed on a cyclical basis at intervals not to exceed 30 minutes. 
CONTROL AREA. Spaces within a building where quanti­ties of hazardous materials not exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area are stored, dispensed, used or handled. See also the definition of "Outdoor control area." 
[B] CORRIDOR. An enclosed exit access component that defines and provides a path of egress travel. 
CORROSIVE. A chemical that causes visible destruction of, or irreversible alterations in, living tissue by chemical action at the point of contact. A chemical shall be considered corro­sive if, when tested on the intact skin of albino rabbits by the method described in DOTn 49 CPR 173.137, such chemical destroys or changes irreversibly the structure of the tissue at the point of contact following an exposure period of 4 hours. This term does not refer to action on inanimate surfaces. 
COTTON. 
Baled cotton. A natural seed fiber wrapped in and secured with industry-accepted materials, usually consisting of burlap, woven polypropylene, polyethylene or cotton or sheet polyethylene, and secured with steel, synthetic or wire bands, or wire; also includes linters (lint removed from the cottonseed) and motes (residual materials from the ginning process). 
Baled cotton, densely packed. Cotton, made into banded bales, with a packing density of at least 22 pounds per cubic foot (360 kg/m3), and dimensions complying with the following: a length of 55 inches (1397 mm), a width of 21 inches (533.4 mm) and a height of 27.6 to 35.4 inches (701 to 899 mm). 
Seed cotton. Perishable raw agricultural commodity con­sisting of cotton fiber (lint) attached to the seed of the cot­ton plant, which requires ginning to become a commercial product. 

[B] COURT. An open, uncovered space, unobstructed to the sky, bounded on three or more sides by exterior building walls or other enclosing devices. 
COURTROOM DOCK. Courtroom Dock shall mean an area within a courtroom where persons may be restrained and are awaiting court proceedings. 
COURTHOUSE HOLDING FACILITY [SFM]. Court­house Holding Facility shall mean a room, cell, cell complex or building for the confinement ofpersons for the purpose of a court appearance for a period not to exceed 12 hours. 
[B] COVERED MALL BUILDING. A single building enclosing a number of tenants and occupants such as retail 
DEFINITIONS 

stores, drinking and dining establishments, entertainment and amusement facilities, passenger transportation terminals, offices, and other similar uses wherein two or more tenants have a main entrance into one or more malls. Anchor build­ings shall not be considered as a part of the covered mall building. The term "covered mall building" shall include open mall buildings as defined below. 
Mall. A roofed or covered common pedestrian area within a covered mall building that serves as access for two or more tenants and not to exceed three levels that are open to each other. The term "mall" shall include open malls as defined below. 
Open mall. An unroofed common pedestrian way serving a number of tenants not exceeding three levels. Circulation at levels above grade shall be permitted to include open exterior balconies leading to exits discharging at grade. 
Open mall building. Several structures housing a number of tenants such as retail stores, drinking and dining estab­lishments, entertainment and amusement facilities, offices, and other similar uses wherein two or more tenants have a main entrance into one or more open malls. Anchor build­ings are not considered as a part of the open mall building. 
CRYOGENIC CONTAINER. A cryogenic vessel of any size used for the transportation, handling or storage of cryo­genic fluids. 
CRYOGENIC FLUID. A fluid having a boiling point lower than -130°F (-89.9°C) at 14.7 pounds per square inch atmo­sphere (psia) (an absolute pressure of 101.3 kPa). 
CRYOGENIC VESSEL. A pressure vessel, low-pressure tank or atmospheric tank designed to contain a cryogenic fluid on which venting, insulation, refrigeration or a combi­nation of these is used in order to maintain the operating pres­sure within the design pressure and the contents in a liquid phase. 
[B] CUSTODIAL CARE. Assistance with day-to-day living tasks, such as assistance with cooking, taking medication, bathing, using toilet facilities and other tasks of daily living. Custodial care includes persons receiving care who evacuate at a slower rate and/or who have mental and psychiatric com­plications. 
CYLINDER. A pressure vessel designed for pressures higher than 40 psia (275.6 kPa) and having a circular cross section. It does not include a portable tank, multi-unit tank car tank, cargo tank or tank car. 
[B] DAMPER. See "Fire damper" and "Smoke damper." 
DAY BOX. A portable magazine designed to hold explosive materials and constructed in accordance with the require­ments for a Type 3 magazine as defined and classified in Chapter 56. 
DAY-CARE. For the purposes of these regulations, shall mean the care ofpersons during any period ofa 24-hour day where permanent sleeping accommodations are not provided. 
Note: "Day-care" shall not be construed to preclude the use of cots or mats for napping purposes, provided all employees, attendants and staff personnel are awake and on duty in the area where napping occurs. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
DAY-CARE HOME, FAMILY. A home that regularly pro­vides care, protection, and supervision for 14 or fewer chil­dren, in the provider's own home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or guardians are away, and is either a large family day-care home or a small family day­care home. 
DAY-CARE HOME, LARGE FAMILY. A provider's own home licensed to provide day care for periods less than 24­hours per day for nine to 14 persons, including children under the age of 10 years who reside at the home. 
DAY-CARE HOME, SMALL FAMILY. A home which pro­vides family day-care to eight or fewer children, including children under the age of 10 years who reside at the home, in the provider's own home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day. Small family day-care homes are exempted from state fire and life safety regulations other than those state and local standards applicable to Group R-3 occupancies. (See Health and Safety Code, Section 13143 (b).) 
DAY ROOM. A room which is adjacent to a cell, or cell tier, or dormitory and which is used as a dining, exercise or other activity room for inmates. 
DECORATIVE MATERIALS. All materials applied over the building interior finish for decorative, acoustical or other effect (such as curtains, draperies, fabrics, streamers and sur­face coverings) and all other materials utilized for decorative effect (such as batting, cloth, cotton, hay, stalks, straw, vines, leaves, trees, moss and similar items), including foam plastics and materials containing foam plastics. Decorative materials do not include floor coverings, ordinary window shades, inte­rior finish and materials 0.025 inch (0.64 mm) or less in thickness applied directly to and adhering tightly to a sub­strate. 
DEFLAGRATION. An exothermic reaction, such as the extremely rapid oxidation of a flammable dust or vapor in air, in which the reaction progresses through the unburned mate­rial at a rate less than the velocity of sound. A deflagration can have an explosive effect. 
DELUGE SYSTEM. A sprinkler system employing open sprinklers attached to a piping system connected to a water supply through a valve that is opened by the operation of a detection system installed in the same area as the sprinklers. When this valve opens, water flows into the piping system and discharges from all sprinklers attached thereto. 
DESIGN PRESSURE. The maximum gauge pressure that a pressure vessel, device, component or system is designed to withstand safely under the temperature and conditions of use expected. 
DETACHED BUILDING. A separate single-story building, without a basement or crawl space, used for the storage or use of hazardous materials and located an approved distance from all structures. 
DETEARING. A process for rapidly removing excess wet coating material from a dipped or coated object or material by passing it through an electrostatic field. 
DETECTOR, HEAT. A fire detector that senses heat, either abnormally high temperature or rate of rise, or both. 
DETENTION ELEVATOR [SFM]. Detention Elevator shall mean an elevator which moves in-custody individuals within a secure and restrained environment. 
DETENTION TREATMENT ROOM. [SFM]. Detention Treatment Room shall mean a lockable room or rooms within Group 1-3 occupancies used for recreational therapy, group rooms, interdisciplinary treatment team rooms, and interview rooms not classified solely as a Group 1-2 occupancy. 
DETONATING CORD. A flexible cord containing a center core of high explosive used to initiate other explosives. 
DETONATION. An exothermic reaction characterized by the presence of a shock wave in the material which estab­lishes and maintains the reaction. The reaction zone pro­gresses through the material at a rate greater than the velocity of sound. The principal heating mechanism is one of shock compression. Detonations have an explosive effect. 
DETONATOR. A device containing any initiating or pri­mary explosive that is used for initiating detonation. A deto­nator shall not contain more than 154.32 grains (10 grams) of total explosives by weight, excluding ignition or delay charges. The term includes, but is not limited to, electric blasting caps of instantaneous and delay types, blasting caps for use with safety fuses, detonating cord delay connectors, and noninstantaneous and delay blasting caps which use deto­nating cord, shock tube or any other replacement for electric leg wires. All types of detonators in strengths through No. 8 cap should be rated at 11 pounds (0.68 kg) of explosives per 
/2 

1,000 caps. For strengths higher than No. 8 cap, consult the manufacturer. 
[B] DETOXIFICATION FACILITIES. Facilities that pro­vide treatment for substance abuse, serving care recipients who are incapable of self-preservation or classified as non­ambulatory or bedridden or who are harmful to themselves or others. 
DIP TANK. A tank, vat or container of flammable or com­bustible liquid in which articles or materials are immersed for the purpose of coating, finishing, treating and similar pro­cesses. 
DIRECT ACCESS. A path of travel from a space to an immediately adjacent space through an opening in the com­mon wall between the two spaces. 
DISCHARGE SITE. The immediate area surrounding the fireworks mortars used for an outdoor fireworks display. 
DISPENSING. The pouring or transferring of any material from a container, tank or similar vessel, whereby vapors, dusts, fumes, mists or gases are liberated to the atmosphere. 
DISPENSING DEVICE, OVERHEAD TYPE. A dispens­ing device that consists of one or more individual units intended for installation in conjunction with each other, mounted above a dispensing area typically within the motor fuel-dispensing facility canopy structure, and characterized by the use of an overhead hose reel. 
DISPLAY SITE. The immediate area where a fireworks dis­play is conducted. The display area includes the discharge site, the fallout area and the required separation distance from the mortars to spectator viewing areas. The display area does not include spectator viewing areas or vehicle parking areas. 
[B] 
DOOR, BALANCED. A door equipped with double­pivoted hardware so designed as to cause a semicounter bal­anced swing action when opening. 

[B] 
DORMITORY. A space in a building where group sleeping accommodations are provided in one room, or in a series of closely associated rooms, for persons not members of the same family group, under joint occupancy and single management, as in college dormitories or fraternity houses. 


DRAFT CURTAIN. A structure arranged to limit the spread of smoke and heat along the underside of the ceiling or roof. 
[B] DRAFTSTOP. A material, device or construction installed to restrict the movement of air within open spaces of concealed areas of building components such as crawl spaces, floor/ceiling assemblies, roof/ceiling assemblies and attics. 
DRY-CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT. A pow­der composed of small particles, usually of sodium bicarbon­ate, potassium bicarbonate, urea-potassium-based bicarbon­ate, potassium chloride or monoammonium phosphate, with added particulate material supplemented by special treatment to provide resistance to packing, resistance to moisture absorption (caking) and the proper flow capabilities. 
DRY CLEANING. The process of removing dirt, grease, paints and other stains from such items as wearing apparel, textiles, fabrics and rugs by use of nonaqueous liquids (sol­vents). 
DRY CLEANING PLANT. A facility in which dry cleaning and associated operations are conducted, including the office, receiving area and storage rooms. 
DRY CLEANING ROOM. An occupiable space within a building used for performing dry cleaning operations, the installation of solvent-handling equipment or the storage of dry cleaning solvents. 
DRY CLEANING SYSTEM. Machinery or equipment in which textiles are immersed or agitated in solvent or in which dry cleaning solvent is extracted from textiles. 
[B] 
DWELLING. A building that contains one or two dwell­ing units used, intended or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied for living purposes. 

[B] 
DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, includ­ing permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. 


EARLY SUPPRESSION FAST-RESPONSE (ESFR) SPRINKLER. A sprinkler listed for early suppression fast­response performance. 
[B] EGRESS COURT. A court or yard which provides access to a public way for one or more exits. 
ELECTROSTATIC FLUIDIZED BED. A container hold­ing powder coating material that is aerated from below so as to form an air-supported expanded cloud of such material that is electrically charged with a charge opposite to that of the object to be coated. Such object is transported through the 
DEFINITIONS 

container immediately above the charged and aerated materi­als in order to be coated. 
ELEVATOR GROUP. A grouping of elevators in a building located adjacent or directly across from one another that respond to a common hall call button(s). 
EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEM. A system to provide indication and warning of emergency situations involving hazardous materials. 
EMERGENCY CONTROL STATION. An approved loca­tion on the premises where signals from emergency equip­ment are received and which is staffed by trained personnel. 
[B] EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENING. An operable window, door or other similar device that pro­vides for a means of escape and access for rescue in the event of an emergency. 
EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL. An exercise per­formed to train staff and occupants and to evaluate their effi­ciency and effectiveness in carrying out emergency evacuation procedures. 
EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE. A valve designed to shut off the flow of gases or liquids. 
EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE, AUTOMATIC. A fail-safe automatic-closing valve designed to shut off the flow of gases or liquids initiated by a control system that is activated by automatic means. 
EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE, MANUAL. A manu­ally operated valve designed to shut off the flow of gases or liquids. 
EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATIONS. Dedicated manual or automatic facilities for originating and distributing voice instructions, as well as alert and evacuation signals pertaining to a fire emergency, to the occupants of a building. 
ENFORCING AGENCY. Enforcing Agency is the desig­nated department or agency as specified by statute or regula­tion. 
[B] EQUIPMENT PLATFORM. An unoccupied, elevated platform used exclusively for mechanical systems or indus­trial process equipment, including the associated elevated walkways, stairs, alternating tread devices and ladders neces­sary to access the platform (see Section 505.5 of the Califor­nia Building Code). 
EXCESS FLOW CONTROL. A fail-safe system or other approved means designed to shut off flow caused by a rupture in pressurized piping systems. 
EXCESS FLOW VALVE. A valve inserted into a com­pressed gas cylinder, portable tank or stationary tank that is designed to positively shut off the flow of gas in the event that its predetermined flow is exceeded. 
EXHAUSTED ENCLOSURE. An appliance or piece of equipment which consists of a top, a back and two sides pro­viding a means of local exhaust for capturing gases, fumes, vapors and mists. Such enclosures include laboratory hoods, exhaust fume hoods and similar appliances and equipment used to retain and exhaust locally the gases, fumes, vapors 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
and mists that could be released. Rooms or areas provided with general ventilation, in themselves, are not exhausted enclosures. 
EXISTING. Buildings, facilities or conditions that are already in existence, constructed or officially authorized prior to the adoption of this code. 
[B] 
EXIT. That portion of a means of egress system between the exit access and the exit discharge or public way. Exit components include exterior exit doors at the level of exit dis­charge, interior exit stairways, interior exit ramps, exit pas­sageways, exterior exit stairways and exterior exit ramps and horizontal exits. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS. That portion of a means of egress sys­tem that leads from any occupied portion of a building or structure to an exit. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY. A door or access point along the path of egress travel from an occupied room, area or space where the path of egress enters an intervening room, corridor, exit access stair or exit access ramp. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS RAMP. An interior ramp that is not a required interior exit ramp. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS STAIRWAY. An interior stairway that is not a required interior exit stairway. 

[B] 
EXIT DISCHARGE. That portion of a means of egress system between the termination of an exit and a public way. 

[B] 
EXIT DISCHARGE, LEVEL OF. The story at the point at which an exit terminates and an exit discharge begins. 


• 	[B] EXIT, HORIZONTAL. A path of egress travel from one building to an area in another building on approximately the same level, or a path of egress travel through or around a wall or partition to an area on approximately the same level in the same building, which affords safety from fire and smoke from the area of incidence and areas communicating there­with. 
[B] EXIT PASSAGEWAY. An exit component that is sepa­rated from other interior spaces of a building or structure by fire-resistance-rated construction and opening protectives, and provides for a protected path of egress travel in a hori­zontal direction to the exit discharge. 
EXPANDED PLASTIC. A foam or cellular plastic material 
having a reduced density based on the presence of numerous 
small cavities or cells dispersed throughout the material. 
EXPLOSION. An effect produced by the sudden violent expansion of gases, which may be accompanied by a shock wave or disruption, or both, of enclosing materials or struc­tures. An explosion could result from any of the following: 
1. 	
Chemical changes such as rapid oxidation, deflagration or detonation, decomposition of molecules and run­away polymerization (usually detonations). 

2. 	
Physical changes such as pressure tank ruptures. 

3. 
Atomic changes (nuclear fission or fusion). EXPLOSIVE. A chemical compound, mixture or device, the 


primary or common purpose of which is to function by explo­sion. The term includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet powder, initiating explosives, detonators, safety fuses, squibs, detonating cord, igniter cord, igniters and display fireworks, 1.3G. 
The term "Explosive" includes any material determined to be within the scope of USC Title 18: Chapter 40 and also includes any material classified as an explosive other than consumer fireworks, 1.4G by the hazardous materials regula­tions ofDOTn 49 CFR Parts 100-185. 
High explosive. Explosive material, such as dynamite, which can be caused to detonate by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined. 
Low explosive. Explosive material that will burn or della­grate when ignited. It is characterized by a rate of reaction that is less than the speed of sound. Examples of low explosives include, but are not limited to, black powder, safety fuse, igniters, igniter cord, fuse lighters, fireworks, 1.3G and propellants, 1.3C. 
Mass-detonating explosives. Division 1.1, 1.2 and 1.5 explosives alone or in combination, or loaded into various types of ammunition or containers, most of which can be expected to explode virtually instantaneously when a small portion is subjected to fire, severe concussion, impact, the impulse of an initiating agent or the effect of a considerable discharge of energy from without. Materials that react in this manner represent a mass explosion haz­ard. Such an explosive will normally cause severe struc­tural damage to adjacent objects. Explosive propagation could occur immediately to other items of ammunition and explosives stored sufficiently close to and not adequately protected from the initially exploding pile with a time interval short enough so that two or more quantities must be considered as one for quantity-distance purposes. 
UN/DOTn Class 1 explosives. The former classification system used by DOTn included the terms "high" and "low" explosives as defined herein. The following terms further define explosives under the current system applied by DOTn for all explosive materials defined as hazard Class 1 materials. Compatibility group letters are used in concert with the Division to specify further limitations on each division noted (i.e., the letter G identifies the material as a pyrotechnic substance or article containing a pyro­technic substance and similar materials). 
Division 1.1. Explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. A mass explosion is one which affects almost the entire load instantaneously. 
Division 1.2. Explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard. 
Division 1.3. Explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard. 
Division 1.4. Explosives that pose a minor explosion hazard. The explosive effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of apprecia­ble size or range is to be expected. An external fire must not cause virtually instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Division 1.5. Very insensitive explosives. This division is comprised of substances that have a mass explosion hazard but which are so insensitive that there is very lit­tle probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of transport. 
Division 1.6. Extremely insensitive articles which do not have a mass explosion hazard. This division is com­prised of articles that contain only extremely insensi­tive detonating substances and which demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propa­gation. 

EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL. The term "explosive" material means explosives, blasting agents and detonators. 
[B] EXTERIOR WALL. A wall, bearing or nonbearing, that is used as an enclosing wall for a building, other than a fire wall, and that has a slope of 60 degrees (1.05 rad) or greater with the horizontal plane. 
EXTRA-HIGH-RACK COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE. Storage on racks of Class I, II, III or IV commodities which exceed 40 feet (12 192 mm) in height and storage on racks of high-hazard commodities which exceed 30 feet (9144 mm) in height. 
FABRICATION AREA. An area within a semiconductor fabrication facility and related research and development areas in which there are processes using hazardous produc­tion materials. Such areas are allowed to include ancillary rooms or areas such as dressing rooms and offices that are directly related to the fabrication area processes. 
FACILITY. A building or use in a fixed location including exterior storage areas for flammable and combustible sub­stances and hazardous materials, piers, wharves, tank farms and similar uses. This term includes recreational vehicles, mobile home and manufactured housing parks, sales and stor­age lots. 
FAIL-SAFE. A design condition incorporating a feature for automatically counteracting the effect of an anticipated possi­ble source of failure; also, a design condition eliminating or mitigating a hazardous condition by compensating automati­cally for a failure or malfunction. 
FALLOUT AREA. The area over which aerial shells are fired. The shells burst over the area, and unsafe debris and malfunctioning aerial shells fall into this area. The fallout area is the location where a typical aerial shell dud falls to the ground depending on the wind and the angle of mortar place­ment. 
FALSE ALARM. The willful and knowing initiation or transmission of a signal, message or other notification of an event of fire when no such danger exists. 
FINES. Small pieces or splinters of wood byproducts that will pass through a 0.25-inch (6.4 mm) screen. 
FIRE ALARM. The giving, signaling or transmission to any public fire station, or company or to any officer or employee thereof, whether by telephone, spoken word or otherwise, of information to the effect that there is a fire at or near the place indicated by the person giving, signaling or transmitting such information. 
DEFINITIONS 

FIRE ALARM BOX, MANUAL. See "Manual fire alarm box." 
FIRE ALARM CONTROL UNIT. A system component that receives inputs from automatic and manual fire alarm devices and may be capable of supplying power to detection devices and transponder(s) or off-premises transmitter(s). The control unit may be capable of providing a transfer of power to the notification appliances and transfer of condition to relays or devices. 
FIRE ALARM SIGNAL. A signal initiated by a fire alarm­initiating device such as a manual fire alarm box, automatic fire detector, waterflow switch or other device whose activa­tion is indicative of the presence of a fire or fire signature. 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system or portion of a combi­nation system consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the status of fire alarm or supervi­sory signal-initiating devices and to initiate the appropriate response to those signals. 
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD. A road that provides fire apparatus access from a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street, private street, parking lot lane and access roadway. 
FIRE APPLIANCE. See Section 902.1. 
[B] 
FIRE AREA. The aggregate floor area enclosed and bounded by fire walls, fire barriers, exterior walls or horizon­tal assemblies of a building. Areas of the building not pro­vided with surrounding walls shall be included in the fire area if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of the roof or floor next above. 

[B] 
FIRE BARRIER. A fire-resistance-rated wall assembly of materials designed to restrict the spread of fire in which continuity is maintained. 


FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the fire department serv­ing the jurisdiction, or a duly authorized representative. 
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The fire chief or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of the code, or a duly authorized representative. 
FIRE COMMAND CENTER. The principal attended or unattended location where the status of detection, alarm com­munications and control systems is displayed, and from which the system(s) can be manually controlled. 
[B] FIRE DAMPER. A listed device installed in ducts and air transfer openings designed to close automatically upon detection of heat and resist the passage of flame. Fire damp­ers are classified for use in either static systems that will auto­matically shut down in the event of a fire, or in dynamic systems that continue to operate during afire. A dynamic fire damper is tested and rated for closure under elevated temper­ature airflow. 
FIRE DEPARTMENT MASTER KEY. A limited issue key of special or controlled design to be carried by fire department officials in command which will open key boxes on specified properties. 
FIRE DETECTOR, AUTOMATIC. A device designed to detect the presence of a fire signature and to initiate action. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[B] 
FIRE DOOR. The door component of a fire door assem­bly. 

[B] 
FIRE DOOR ASSEMBLY. Any combination of a fire door, frame, hardware and other accessories that together provide a specific degree of fire protection to the opening. 

[B] 
FIRE EXIT HARDWARE. Panic hardware that is listed for use on fire door assemblies. 

FIRE LANE. A road or other passageway developed to allow the passage of fire apparatus. A fire lane is not neces­sarily intended for vehicular traffic other than fire apparatus. 

[B] 
FIRE PARTITION. A vertical assembly of materials designed to restrict the spread of fire in which openings are protected. 


FIRE POINT. The lowest temperature at which a liquid will ignite and achieve sustained burning when exposed to a test flame in accordance with ASTM D 92. 
[B] FIRE PROTECTION RATING. The period of time that an opening protective assembly will maintain the ability to confine a fire as determined by tests prescribed in Section 716 of the California Building Code. Ratings are stated in hours or minutes. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM. Approved devices, equip­ment and systems or combinations of systems used to detect a fire, activate an alarm, extinguish or control a fire, control or manage smoke and products of a fire or any combination thereof. 
[B] 
FIRE RESISTANCE. That property of materials or their assemblies that prevents or retards the passage of excessive heat, hot gases or flames under conditions of use. 

[B] 
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING. The period of time a building element, component or assembly maintains the abil­ity to confine a fire, continues to perform a given stmctural function, or both, as determined by the tests, or the methods based on tests, prescribed in Section 703 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 
FIRE-RESISTANT JOINT SYSTEM. An assemblage of specific materials or products that are designed, tested and fire-resistance rated in accordance with either ASTM E 1966 or UL 2079 to resist for a prescribed period of time the pas­sage of fire through joints made in or between fire-resistance­rated assemblies. 


FIRE SAFETY FUNCTIONS. Building and fire control functions that are intended to increase the level of life safety for occupants or to control the spread of the harmful effects of fire. 
[B] FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE. The distance mea­sured from the building face to one of the following: 
1. 	
The closest interior lot line; 

2. 	
To the centerline of a street, an alley or public way; or 

3. 	
To an imaginary line between two buildings on the property. 


The distance shall be measured at right angles from the face of the wall. 
[B] FIRE WALL. A fire-resistance-rated wall having pro­tected openings, which restricts the spread of fire and extends continuously from the foundation to or through the roof, with sufficient stmctural stability under fire conditions to allow collapse of constmction on either side without collapse of the wall. 
FIRE WATCH. A temporary measure intended to ensure continuous and systematic surveillance of a building or por­tion thereof by one or more qualified individuals for the pur­poses of identifying and controlling fire hazards, detecting early signs of unwanted fire, raising an alarm of fire and noti­fying the fire department. 
[B] FIREBLOCKING. Building materials, or materials approved for use as fireblocking, installed to resist the free passage of flame to other areas of the building through con­cealed spaces. 
FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect for entertainment purposes by combustion, deflagration or detonation that meets the definition of 1.4G fireworks or 1.3G fireworks as set forth herein. 
Fireworks, 1.4G. Small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combus­tion. Such 1.4G fireworks which comply with the con­stmction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the DOTn for Fireworks, UN 0336, and the U.S. Con­sumer Product Safety Commission as set forth in CPSC 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507, are not explosive materials for the purpose of this code. 
Fireworks, 1.3G. Large fireworks devices, which are explosive materials, intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce audible or visible effects by com­bustion, deflagration or detonation. Such 1.3G fireworks include, but are not limited to, firecrackers containing more than 130 milligrams (2 grains) of explosive composi­tion, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyro­technic composition and other display pieces which exceed the limits for classification as 1.4G fireworks. Such 1.3G fireworks are also described as Fireworks, UN 0335 by the DOTn. 
FIREWORKS DISPLAY. A presentation of fireworks for a public or private gathering. 
[B] FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO). A commercial business granted the right by the airport sponsor to operate on an airport and provide aeronautical services such as fueling, hangaring, tie-down and parking, aircraft rental, aircraft maintenance and flight instmction. 
FIXED GUIDEWAY TRANSIT SYSTEMS. (See California Building Code, Section 443.) 
[B] 
FIXED SEATING. Furniture or fixtures designed and installed for the use of sitting and secured in place including bench-type seats and seats with or without back or arm rests. 

[B] 
FLAME SPREAD. The propagation of flame over a sur­face. 


[B] FLAME SPREAD INDEX. A comparative measure, expressed as a dimensionless number, derived from visual measurements of the spread of flame versus time for a mate­rial tested in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723. 
FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUID. A cryogenic fluid that is flammable in its vapor state. 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES. Coatings to articles or materials in which the material being applied is a flammable liquid, combustible liquid, combustible powder, fiberglass resin or flammable or combustible gel coating. 
FLAMMABLE GAS. A material which is a gas at 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 pounds per square inch atmosphere (psia) (101 kPa) of pressure [a material that has a boiling point of 68°F (20°C) or less at 14.7 psia (101 kPa)] which: 
1. 	
Is ignitable at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) when in a mixture of 13 percent or less by volume with air; or 

2. 	
Has a flammable range at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) with air of at least 12 percent, regardless of the lower limit. 



The limits specified shall be determined at 14.7 psi (101 kPa) of pressure and a temperature of 68°F (20°C) in accor­dance with ASTM E 681. 
FLAMMABLE LIQUEFIED GAS. A liquefied com­pressed gas which, under a charged pressure, is partially liq­uid at a temperature of 68°F (20°C) and which is flammable. 
FLAMMABLE LIQUID. A liquid having a closed cup flash point below 100°F (38°C). Flammable liquids are further cat­egorized into a group known as Class I liquids. The Class I category is subdivided as follows: 
Class lA. Liquids having a flash point below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point below 100°F (38°C). 
Class lB. Liquids having a flash point below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or above 100°F (38°C). 
Class IC. Liquids having a flash point at or above 73°F (23°C) and below 100°F (38°C). 

The category of flammable liquids does not include com­pressed gases or cryogenic fluids. 
FLAMMABLE MATERIAL. A material capable of being readily ignited from common sources of heat or at a tempera­ture of 600°F (316°C) or less. 
FLAMMABLE SOLID. A solid, other than a blasting agent or explosive, that is capable of causing fire through friction, absorption of moisture, spontaneous chemical change or retained heat from manufacturing or processing, or which has an ignition temperature below 212°F (100°C) or which burns so vigorously and persistently when ignited as to create a serious hazard. A chemical shall be considered a flammable solid as determined in accordance with the test method of CPSC 16 CFR Part 1500.44, if it ignites and burns with a self-sustained flame at a rate greater than 0.1 inch (2.5 mm) per second along its major axis. 
FLAMMABLE VAPOR AREA. An area in which the con­centration of flammable constituents (vapor, gas, fume, mist or dust) in air exceeds 25 percent of their lower flammable 
DEFINITIONS 

limit (LFL) because of the flammable finish processes opera­tion. It shall include: 
1. 	
The interior of spray booths. 

2. 	
The interior of ducts exhausting from spraying pro­cesses. 

3. 	
Any area in the direct path of spray or any area contain­ing dangerous quantities of air-suspended powder, combustible residue, dust, deposits, vapor or mists as a result of spraying operations. 

4. 
The area in the vicinity 	of dip tanks, drain boards or associated drying, conveying or other equipment during operation or shutdown periods. 


The fire code official is authorized to determine the extent of the flammable vapor area, taking into consideration the material characteristics of the flammable materials, the degree of sustained ventilation and the nature of the opera­tions. 
FLAMMABLE VAPORS OR FUMES. The concentration of flammable constituents in air that exceeds 25 percent of their lower flammable limit (LFL). 
FLASH POINT. The minimum temperature in degrees Fahr­enheit at which a liquid will give off sufficient vapors to form an ignitable mixture with air near the surface or in the con­tainer, but will not sustain combustion. The flash point of a liquid shall be determined by appropriate test procedure and apparatus as specified in ASTM D 56, ASTM D 93 or ASTM D 3278. 
FLEET VEHICLE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. That portion of a commercial, industrial, gov­ernmental or manufacturing property where liquids used as fuels are stored and dispensed into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles that are used in connection with such businesses, by persons within the employ of such businesses. 
[B] FLIGHT. A continuous run of rectangular treads, wind­ers or combination thereof from one landing to another. 
FLOAT. A floating structure normally used as a point of transfer for passengers and goods, or both, for mooring pur­poses. 
[B] 
FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The floor area within the inside perimeter of the exterior walls of the building under consideration, exclusive of vent shafts and courts, without deduction for corridors, stairways, closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or other features. The floor area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above. The gross floor area shall not include shafts with no openings or interior courts. 

[B] 
FLOOR AREA, NET. The actual occupied area not including unoccupied accessory areas such as corridors, stair­ways, toilet rooms, mechanical rooms and closets. 


FLUE SPACES. 
Longitudinal flue space. The flue space between rows of storage perpendicular to the direction of loading. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Transverse flue space. The space between rows of stor­age parallel to the direction of loading. 
FLUIDIZED BED. A container holding powder coating material that is aerated from below so as to form an air-sup­ported expanded cloud of such material through which the preheated object to be coated is immersed and transported. 
FOAM-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. A special system discharging a foam made from concentrates, either mechani­cally or chemically, over the area to be protected. 
[B] 
FOLDING AND TELESCOPIC SEATING. Tiered seating having an overall shape and size that is capable of being reduced for purposes of moving or storing and is not a building element. 

[B] 
FOSTER CARE FACILITIES. Facilities that provide care to more than five children, 21/ 2 years of age or less. 


FOSTER FAMILY HOME. Foster family home means any residential facility providing 24-hour care for six or fewer foster children that is owned, leased, or rented and is the res­idence of the foster parent or parents, including their family, in whose care the foster children have been placed. The placement may be by a public or private child placement agency or by a court order, or by voluntary placement by a parent, parents, or guardian. It also means a foster family 
home described in Section 1505.2. 
FUEL LIMIT SWITCH. A mechanism, located on a tank vehicle, that limits the quantity of product dispensed at one time. 
FULL-TIME CARE shall mean the establishment and rou­tine care of persons on an hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, yearly or permanent basis, whether for 24-hours per day or less, and where sleeping accommodations are provided. 
FUMIGANT. A substance which by itself or in combination with any other substance emits or liberates a gas, fume or vapor utilized for the destruction or control of insects, fungi, vermin, germs, rats or other pests, and shall be distinguished from insecticides and disinfectants which are essentially effective in the solid or liquid phases. Examples are methyl bromide, ethylene dibromide, hydrogen cyanide, carbon disulfide and sulfuryl fluoride. 
FUMIGATION. The utilization within an enclosed space of a fumigant in concentrations that are hazardous or acutely toxic to humans. 
FURNACE CLASS A. An oven or furnace that has heat uti­lization equipment operating at approximately atmospheric pressure wherein there is a potential explosion or fire hazard that could be occasioned by the presence of flammable vola­tiles or combustible materials processed or heated in the fur­nace. 
Note: Such flammable volatiles or combustible materials can, for instance, originate from the following: 
1. 	
Paints, powders, inks, and adhesives from finishing processes, such as dipped, coated, sprayed and impregnated materials. 

2. 	
The substrate material. 


3. 	
Wood, paper and plastic pallets, spacers or packag­ing materials. 

4. 
Polymerization or other molecular rearrangements. 


Potentially flammable materials, such as quench oil, water-borne finishes, cooling oil or cooking oils, that pres­ent a hazard are ventilated according to Class A standards. 
FURNACE CLASS B. An oven or furnace that has heat uti­lization equipment operating at approximately atmospheric pressure wherein there are no flammable volatiles or combus­tible materials being heated. 
FURNACE CLASS C. An oven or furnace that has a poten­tial hazard due to a flammable or other special atmosphere being used for treatment of material in process. This type of furnace can use any type of heating system and includes a special atmosphere supply system. Also included in the Class C classification are integral quench furnaces and molten salt bath furnaces. 
FURNACE CLASS D. An oven or furnace that operates at temperatures from above ambient to over 5,000°F (2760°C) and at pressures normally below atmospheric using any type of heating system. These furnaces can include the use of spe­cial processing atmospheres. 
GAS CABINET. A fully enclosed, ventilated, noncombusti­ble enclosure used to provide an isolated environment for compressed gas cylinders in storage or use. Doors and access ports for exchanging cylinders and accessing pressure-regu­lating controls are allowed to be included. 
GAS DETECTION SYSTEM, CONTINUOUS. See "Con­tinuous gas detection system." 
GAS ROOM. A separately ventilated, fully enclosed room in which only compressed gases and associated equipment and supplies are stored or used. 
[B] 
GRADE FLOOR OPENING. A window or other open­ing located such that the sill height of the opening is not more than 44 inches (1118 mm) above or below the finished ground level adjacent to the opening. 

[B] 
GRADE PLANE. A reference plane representing the average of finished ground level adjoining the building at exterior walls. Where the finished ground level slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be estab­lished by the lowest points within the area between the build­ing and the lot line or, where the lot line is more than 6 feet (1829 mm) from the building, between the building and a point 6 feet (1829 mm) from the building. 

[B] 
GRANDSTAND. Tiered seating supported on a dedi­cated structural system and two or more rows high and is not 


a building element (see "Bleachers"). 
< 

GROUP HOME. Group Home means a facility which pro­vides 24-hour care and supervision to children, provides ser­vices specified in this chapter to a specific client group, and maintains a structured environment, with such services pro­vided at least in part by staff employed by the licensee. The care and supervision provided by a group home shall be non­medical except as permitted by Welfare and Institutions Code Section 17736(b ). Since small family and foster family homes, by definition, care for six or fewer children only, any facility 
II 
providing 24-hour care for seven or more children must be licensed as a group home. 
[B] 
GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level. 

[B] 
GYPSUM BOARD. Gypsum wallboard, gypsum sheath­ing, gypsum base for gypsum veneer plaster, exterior gypsum soffit board, predecorated gypsum board or water-resistant gypsum backing board complying with the standards listed in Tables 2506.2 and 2507.2 and Chapter 35 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 
HABITABLE SPACE. A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and similar areas are not con­sidered habitable spaces. 


HALOGENATED EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. A fire­extinguishing system using one or more atoms of an element from the halogen chemical series: fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. 
HANDLING. The deliberate transport by any means to a point of storage or use. 
[B] HANDRAIL. A horizontal or sloping rail intended for grasping by the hand for guidance or support. 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Those chemicals or sub­stances which are physical hazards or health hazards as defined and classified in this chapter, whether the materials are in usable or waste condition. 
HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIAL (HPM). A solid, liquid or gas associated with semiconductor manufac­turing that has a degree-of-hazard rating in health, flammabil­ity or instability of Class 3 or 4 as ranked by NFP A 704 and which is used directly in research, laboratory or production processes which have, as their end product, materials that are not hazardous. 
HEALTH HAZARD. A classification of a chemical for which there is statistically significant evidence that acute or chronic health effects are capable of occurring in exposed persons. The term "health hazard" includes chemicals that are toxic, highly toxic and corrosive. 
HEAT DETECTOR. See "Detector, Heat." 
[B] HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from grade plane to the average height of the highest roof surface. 
HELIPORT. An area of land or water or a structural surface that is used, or intended for use, for the landing and taking off of helicopters, and any appurtenant areas which are used, or intended for use, for heliport buildings and other heliport facilities. 
HELISTOP. The same as "Heliport," except that no fueling, defueling, maintenance, repairs or storage of helicopters is permitted. 
HI-BOY. A cart used to transport hot roofing materials on a roof. 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE. Storage of combustible materials in closely packed piles or combustible 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE DEFINITIONS 
materials on pallets, in racks or on shelves where the top of storage is greater than 12 feet (3658 mm) in height. When required by the fire code official, high-piled combustible stor­age also includes certain high-hazard commodities, such as rubber tires, Group A plastics, flammable liquids, idle pallets and similar commodities, where the top of storage is greater than 6 feet (1829 mm) in height. 
HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREA. An area within a build­ing which is designated, intended, proposed or actually used for high-piled combustible storage. 
[B] HIGH-RISE BUILDING. In other than Group I-2 occu­pancies, "high-rise buildings" as used in this code: < 
Existing high-rise structure. A high-rise structure, the construction of which is commenced or completed prior to July I, I974. 
High-rise structure. Every building of any type of con-I I struction or occupancy having floors used for human occupancy located more than 75 feet above the lowest floor level having building access (see Section 403), except buildings used as hospitals as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1250. 
New high-rise building. A high-rise structure, the con­struction of which is commenced on or after July I, I974. For the purpose of this section, construction shall be deemed to have commenced when plans and specifications are more than 50 percent complete and have been pre­sented to the local jurisdiction prior to July I, I974. Unless all provisions of this section have been met, the construction of such buildings shall commence on or before January I, I976. 
New high-rise structure. A high-rise structure, the con-I I struction ofwhich is commenced on or after July I, I974. 
HIGH-VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE. An electrical power transmission line operating at or above 66 kilovolts. 
HIGHLY TOXIC. A material which produces a lethal dose or lethal concentration which falls within any of the follow­ing categories: 
1. 	
A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of 50 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight when administered orally to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 grams each. 

2. 	
A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of 200 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight when administered by continuous contact for 24 hours (or less if death occurs within 24 hours) with the bare skin of albino rabbits weighing between 2 and 3 kilograms each. 

3. 	
A chemical that has a median lethal concentration (LC50) in air of 200 parts per million by volume or less of gas or vapor, or 2 milligrams per liter or less of mist, fume or dust, when administered by continuous inhala­tion for one hour (or less if death occurs within 1 hour) to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 grams each. 


Mixtures of these materials with ordinary materials, such as water, might not warrant classification as highly toxic. 
While this system is basically simple in application, any haz­ard evaluation that is required for the precise categorization of this type of material shall be performed by experienced, technically competent persons. 
HIGHLY VOLATILE LIQUID. A liquefied compressed gas with a boiling point of less than 68°F (20°C). 
HIGHWAY. A public street, public alley or public road. 
[B] HISTORIC BUILDINGS. Buildings that are listed in or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, or designated as historic under an appropriate state or local law. 
HOGGED MATERIALS. Wood waste materials produced from the lumber production process. 
HOLDING FACILITY. A detention or correctional facility or area where inmates, staff and public are not housed but are restrained. 
[M] HOOD. An air-intake device used to capture by entrap­ment, impingement, adhesion or similar means, grease and similar contaminants before they enter a duct system. 
Type I. A kitchen hood for collecting and removing grease vapors and smoke. 
Type II. A general kitchen hood for collecting and remov­ing steam vapor, heat, odors and products of combustion. 
[B] 
HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY. A fire-resistance-rated floor or roof assembly of materials designed to restrict the spread of fire in which continuity is maintained. 

[B] 
HORIZONTAL EXIT. See "Exit, Horizontal." 

[B] 
HOSPITALS AND PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS. Facilities that provide care or treatment for the medical, psy­chiatric, obstetrical, or surgical treatment of inpatient care recipients that are incapable of self-preservation or classified as non-ambulatory or bedridden. 


HOT WORK. Operations including cutting, welding, Ther­mit welding, brazing, soldering, grinding, thermal spraying, thawing pipe, installation of torch-applied roof systems or any other similar activity. 
HOT WORK AREA. The area exposed to sparks, hot slag, radiant heat, or convective heat as a result of the hot work. 
HOT WORK EQUIPMENT. Electric or gas welding or cut­ting equipment used for hot work. 
HOT WORK PERMITS. Permits issued by the responsible person at the facility under the hot work permit program per­mitting welding or other hot work to be done in locations referred to in Section 3503.3 and pre-permitted by the fire code official. 
HOT WORK PROGRAM. A permitted program, carried out by approved facilities-designated personnel, allowing them to oversee and issue permits for hot work conducted by their personnel or at their facility. The intent is to have trained, on-site, responsible personnel ensure that required hot work safety measures are taken to prevent fires and fire spread. 
HOUSING UNIT is an area intended to lodge inmates on a 24-hour basis where accommodations are provided for sleep­ing. 
HPM FACILITY. See "Semiconductor fabrication facility." 
HPM FLAMMABLE LIQUID. An HPM liquid that is defined as either a Class I flammable liquid or a Class II or Class IliA combustible liquid. 
HPM ROOM. A room used in conjunction with or serving a Group H-5 occupancy, where HPM is stored or used and which is classified as a Group H-2, H-3 or H-4 occupancy. 
IMMEDIATELY DANGEROUS TO LIFE AND HEALTH (IDLH). The concentration of air-borne contami­nants that poses a threat of death, immediate or delayed per­manent adverse health effects, or effects that could prevent escape from such an environment. This contaminant concen­tration level is established by the National Institute of Occu­pational Safety and Health (NIOSH) based on both toxicity and flammability. It generally is expressed in parts per mil­lion by volume (ppm v/v) or milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m3). Where adequate data do not exist for precise establishment of IDLH concentrations, an independent certi­fied industrial hygienist, industrial toxicologist, appropriate regulatory agency or other source approved by the fire code official shall make such determination. 
IMPAIRMENT COORDINATOR. The person responsible for the maintenance of a particular fire protection system. 
[B] INCAPABLE OF SELF-PRESERVATION. Persons because of age, physical limitations, mental limitations, chemical dependency, or medical treatment who cannot respond as an individual to an emergency situation. 
INCOMPATIBLE MATERIALS. Materials that, when mixed, have the potential to react in a manner which gener­ates heat, fumes, gases or byproducts which are hazardous to life or property. 
INERT GAS. A gas that is capable of reacting with other materials only under abnormal conditions such as high tem­peratures, pressures and similar extrinsic physical forces. Within the context of the code, inert gases do not exhibit either physical or health hazard properties as defined (other than acting as a simple asphyxiant) or hazard properties other than those of a compressed gas. Some of the more common inert gases include argon, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen and xenon. 
INFANT. For the purpose of these regulations, shall mean any child who because of age only, is unable to walk and requires the aid of another person to evacuate the building. In no case shall the term "infant" mean a child 2 years ofage or older. 
INHABITED BUILDING. A building regularly occupied in whole or in part as a habitation for people, or any place of religious worship, schoolhouse, railroad station, store or other structure where people are accustomed to assemble, except any building or structure occupied in connection with the manufacture, transportation, storage or use of explosive materials. 
INITIATING DEVICE. A system component that origi­nates transmission of a change-of-state condition, such as in a smoke detector, manual fire alarm box, or supervisory switch. 
INSECTICIDAL FOGGING. The utilization of insecticidal liquids passed through fog-generating units where, by means of pressure and turbulence, with or without the application of heat, such liquids are transformed and discharged in the form of fog or mist blown into an area to be treated. 
[B]
 INTERIOR EXIT RAMP. An exit component that serves to meet one or more means of egress design require­ments, such as required number of exits or exit access travel distance, and provides for a protected path of egress travel to the exit discharge or public way. 

[B]
 INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAY. An exit component that serves to meet one or more means of egress design requirements, such as required number of exits or exit access travel distance, and provides for a protected path of egress travel to the exit discharge or public way. 

[B]
 INTERIOR FINISH. Interior finish includes interior wall and ceiling finish and interior floor finish. 

[B]
 INTERIOR FLOOR-WALL BASE. Interior floor fin­ish trim used to provide a functional or decorative border at the intersection of walls and floors. 

[B]
 INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH. The exposed interior surfaces of buildings, including but not lim­ited to: fixed or movable walls and partitions; toilet room pri­vacy partitions; columns; ceilings; and interior wainscoting, paneling or other finish applied structurally or for decoration, acoustical correction, surface insulation, structural fire resis­tance or similar purposes, but not including trim. 


IRRITANT. A chemical which is not corrosive, but which causes a reversible inflammatory effect on living tissue by chemical action at the site of contact. A chemical is a skin irritant if, when tested on the intact skin of albino rabbits by the methods of CPSC 16 CFR Part 1500.41 for an exposure of four or more hours or by other appropriate techniques, it results in an empirical score of 5 or more. A chemical is clas­sified as an eye irritant if so determined under the procedure listed in CPSC 16 CFR Part 1500.42 or other approved tech­niques. 
[A]
 JURISDICTION. The governmental unit that has adopted this code under due legislative authority. 

KEY BOX. A secure device with a lock operable only by a fire department master key, and containing building entry keys and other keys that may be required for access in an emergency. 

[A]
 LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with product evalua­tion that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material or product meets identified stan­dards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose. 


DEFINITIONS 

LABORATORY. [SFM] A room, building or area where the use and storage of hazardous materials are utilized for test­ing, analysis, instruction, research or developmental activi­ties. 
LABORATORY SUITE. [SFM] See Section 443 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. 
[B] LEVEL OF EXIT DISCHARGE. See “Exit Discharge, Level of.” 
LIMITED SPRAYING SPACE. An area in which opera­tions for touch-up or spot painting of a surface area of 9 square feet (0.84 m2) or less are conducted. 
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG). A fluid in the liquid state composed predominantly of methane and which may contain minor quantities of ethane, propane, nitrogen or other components normally found in natural gas. 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LP-gas). A material which is composed predominantly of the following hydrocar­bons or mixtures of them: propane, propylene, butane (nor­mal butane or isobutane) and butylenes. 
LIQUID. A material having a melting point that is equal to or less than 68°F (20°C) and a boiling point which is greater than 68°F (20°C) at 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute (psia) (101 kPa). When not otherwise identified, the term “liquid” includes both flammable and combustible liquids. 
LIQUID OXYGEN AMBULATORY CONTAINER. A container used for liquid oxygen not exceeding 0.396 gallons 
(1.5 liters) specifically designed for use as a medical device as defined by 21 USC Chapter 9 that is intended for portable therapeutic use and to be filled from its companion base unit (a liquid oxygen home care container). 
LIQUID OXYGEN HOME CARE CONTAINER. A con­tainer used for liquid oxygen not exceeding 15.8 gallons (60 liters) specifically designed for use as a medical device as defined by 21 USC Chapter 9 that is intended to deliver gas­eous oxygen for therapeutic use in a home environment. 
LIQUID STORAGE ROOM. A room classified as a Group H-3 occupancy used for the storage of flammable or combus­tible liquids in a closed condition. 
LIQUID STORAGE WAREHOUSE. A building classified as a Group H-2 or H-3 occupancy used for the storage of flammable or combustible liquids in a closed condition. 
[A] LISTED. Equipment, materials, products or services included in a list published by an organization acceptable to the fire code official and concerned with evaluation of prod­ucts or services that maintains periodic inspection of produc­tion of listed equipment or materials or periodic evaluation of services and whose listing states either that the equipment, material, product or service meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose. 
For applications listed in Section 1.11 regulated by the Office of the State Fire Marshal, “listed” shall also mean equipment or materials accepted by the State Fire Marshal as conforming to the provisions of the State Fire Marshal’s reg­ulations and which are included in a list published by the State Fire Marshal. 
> 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
LODGING HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof con­taining not more than five guestrooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. 
LOCKDOWN. An emergency situation, in other than a Group I-3 occupancy, requiring that the occupants be shel­tered and secured in place within a building when normal evacuation would put occupants at risk. 
LONGITUDINAL FLUE SPACE. See “Flue Space—Lon­gitudinal.” 
[A]
 LOT. A portion or parcel of land considered as a unit. 

[A]
 LOT LINE. A line dividing one lot from another, or from a street or any public place. 


LOW-PRESSURE TANK. A storage tank designed to with­stand an internal pressure greater than 0.5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (3.4 kPa) but not greater than 15 psig 
(103.4 kPa). 
LOWER EXPLOSIVE LIMIT (LEL). See “Lower flam­mable limit.” 
LOWER FLAMMABLE LIMIT (LFL). The minimum concentration of vapor in air at which propagation of flame will occur in the presence of an ignition source. The LFL is sometimes referred to as LEL or lower explosive limit. 
LP-GAS CONTAINER. Any vessel, including cylinders, tanks, portable tanks and cargo tanks, used for transporting or storing LP-gases. 
MAGAZINE. A building, structure or container, other than an operating building, approved for storage of explosive materials. 
Indoor. A portable structure, such as a box, bin or other container, constructed as required for Type 2, 4 or 5 maga­zines in accordance with NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55 so as to be fire resistant and theft resistant. 
Type 1. A permanent structure, such as a building or igloo, that is bullet resistant, fire resistant, theft resistant, weather resistant and ventilated in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55. 
Type 2. A portable or mobile structure, such as a box, skid-magazine, trailer or semitrailer, constructed in accor­dance with the requirements of NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55 that is fire resistant, theft resistant, weather resistant and ventilated. If used outdoors, a Type 2 magazine is also bullet resistant. 
Type 3. A fire resistant, theft resistant and weather resis­tant “day box” or portable structure constructed in accor­dance with NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55 used for the temporary storage of explosive materials. 
Type 4. A permanent, portable or mobile structure such as a building, igloo, box, semitrailer or other mobile con­tainer that is fire resistant, theft resistant and weather resis­tant and constructed in accordance with NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55. 
Type 5. A permanent, portable or mobile structure such as a building, igloo, box, bin, tank, semitrailer, bulk trailer, tank trailer, bulk truck, tank truck or other mobile container that is theft resistant, which is constructed in accordance with NFPA 495, NFPA 1124 or DOTy 27 CFR Part 55. 
MAGNESIUM. The pure metal and alloys, of which the major part is magnesium. 
[B] MALL. See “Covered mall building.” 
MANUAL FIRE ALARM BOX. A manually operated device used to initiate an alarm signal. 
MANUAL STOCKING METHODS. Stocking methods utilizing ladders or other nonmechanical equipment to move stock. 
MARINA. Any portion of the ocean or inland water, either naturally or artificially protected, for the mooring, servicing or safety of vessels and shall include artificially protected works, the public or private lands ashore, and structures or facilities provided within the enclosed body of water and ashore for the mooring or servicing of vessels or the servicing of their crews or passengers. 
MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. 
That portion of property where flammable or combustible liq­uids or gases used as fuel for watercraft are stored and dis­pensed from fixed equipment on shore, piers, wharves, floats or barges into the fuel tanks of watercraft and shall include all other facilities used in connection therewith. 
MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS). Informa­tion concerning a hazardous material which is prepared in accordance with the provisions of DOL 29 CFR Part 1910.1200 or in accordance with the provisions of a federally approved state OSHA plan. 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CON­TROL AREA. The maximum amount of a hazardous mate­rial allowed to be stored or used within a control area inside a building or an outdoor control area. The maximum allowable quantity per control area is based on the material state (solid, liquid or gas) and the material storage or use conditions. 
[B]
 MEANS OF EGRESS. A continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and horizontal egress travel from any occu­pied portion of a building or structure to a public way. A means of egress consists of three separate and distinct parts: the exit access, the exit and the exit discharge. 

MECHANICAL STOCKING METHODS. Stocking meth­ods utilizing motorized vehicles or hydraulic jacks to move stock. 

[B]
 MEDICAL CARE. Care involving medical or surgical procedures, nursing or for psychiatric purposes. 


MEMBRANE STRUCTURE. An air-inflated, air-sup­ported, cable or frame-covered structure as defined by the California Building Code and not otherwise defined as a tent. See Chapter 31 of the California Building Code. 
MENTALLY RETARDED PERSONS, PROFOUNDLY OR SEVERELY. Any retarded person who is unable to evacuate a building unassisted during emergency conditions. 
Note: The determination as to such incapacity shall be made by the Director of the State Department of Public Health or his or her designated representative pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13131.3. 
BUFF 
DEFINITIONS 

[B] MERCHANDISE PAD. A merchandise pad is an area for display of merchandise surrounded by aisles, permanent fixtures or walls. Merchandise pads contain elements such as nonfixed and moveable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions as indicated in Section 105.2 of the California Building Code from which customers browse or shop. 
METAL HYDRIDE. A generic name for compounds com­posed of metallic element(s) and hydrogen. 
METAL HYDRIDE STORAGE SYSTEM. A closed sys­tem consisting of a group of components assembled as a package to contain metal-hydrogen compounds for which there exists an equilibrium condition where the hydrogen-absorbing metal alloy(s), hydrogen gas and the metal-hydro­gen compound(s) coexist and where only hydrogen gas is released from the system in normal use. 
[B] MEZZANINE. An intermediate level or levels between the floor and ceiling of any story and in accordance with Sec­tion 505 of the California Building Code. 
MOBILE FUELING. The operation of dispensing liquid fuels from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Mobile fueling may also be known by the terms “Mobile fleet fueling,” “Wet fueling” and “Wet hosing.” 
MORTAR. A tube from which fireworks shells are fired into the air. 
MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM DEVICE. Two or more single-station alarm devices that can be interconnected such that actuation of one causes all integral or separate audible alarms to operate. It also can consist of one single-station alarm device having connections to other detectors or to a manual fire alarm box. 
MULTIPLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM. Two or more single-station alarm devices that are capable of interconnec­tion such that actuation of one causes the appropriate alarm signal to operate in all interconnected alarms. 
NESTING. A method of securing flat-bottomed compressed gas cylinders upright in a tight mass using a contiguous three-point contact system whereby all cylinders within a group have a minimum of three points of contact with other cylin­ders, walls or bracing. 
NET EXPLOSIVE WEIGHT (net weight). The weight of explosive material expressed in pounds. The net explosive weight is the aggregate amount of explosive material con­tained within buildings, magazines, structures or portions thereof, used to establish quantity-distance relationships. 
NON-ACCESSIBLE AREA. An enclosed area that creates a cavity by the application of any construction feature and/or building materials. This area shall be recognized by the enforcing agency as a separation between the non-accessible space and any adjacent, occupied space of the building. 
NONAMBULATORY PERSONS. Persons unable to leave a building unassisted under emergency conditions. It includes, but is not limited to, persons who depend on mechanical aids such as crutches, walkers and wheelchairs and any person who is unable to physically and mentally respond to a sen­sory signal approved by the State Fire Marshal or an oral instruction relating to fire danger. 
The determination of ambulatory or nonambulatory status of persons with developmental disabilities shall be made by the Director of Social Services or his or her designated rep­resentative, in consultation with the Director of Developmen­tal Services or his or her designated representative. The determination of ambulatory or nonambulatory status of all other disabled persons placed after January 1, 1984, who are not developmentally disabled shall be made by the Director of Social Services or his or her designated representative. 
NONCOMBUSTIBLE. [SFM] Noncombustible as applied to building construction material means a material which, in the form in which it is used, is either one of the following: 
1.
 Material of which no part will ignite and burn when subjected to fire. Any material passing ASTM E 136 shall be considered noncombustible. 

2.
 Material having a structural base of noncombustible material as defined in Item 1 above, with a surfacing material not over 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) thick which has a flame-spread index of 50 or less. 


“Noncombustible” does not apply to surface finish materi­als. Material required to be noncombustible for reduced clearances to flues, heating appliances or other sources of high temperature shall refer to material conforming to Item 
1. No material shall be classed as noncombustible which is subject to increase in combustibility or flame-spread index, beyond the limits herein established, through the effects of age, moisture or other atmospheric condition. 
NORMAL TEMPERATURE AND PRESSURE (NTP). A temperature of 70°F (21°C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere 
[14.7 psia (101 kPa)]. 
[B] NOSING. The leading edge of treads of stairs and of landings at the top of stairway flights. 
NOTIFICATION ZONE. See “Zone, notification.” 
NUISANCE ALARM. An alarm caused by mechanical fail­ure, malfunction, improper installation or lack of proper maintenance, or an alarm activated by a cause that cannot be determined. 
[B] NURSING HOMES. Facilities that provide care, including both intermediate care facilities and skilled nursing facilities, where any of the persons are incapable of self-pres­ervation or classified as nonambulatory or bedridden. 
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION. For the purposes of this code, certain occupancies are defined as follows: 
[B] Assembly Group A. Assembly Group A occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, for the gathering of persons for purposes such as civic, social or religious functions; recreation, food or drink consumption; or awaiting transportation or Motion Pic­ture and Television Production Studio Sound Stages, Approved Production Facilities and production locations. Any building or structure or portion thereof used or intended to be used for the showing of motion pictures when an admis­sion fee is charged and when such building or structure is open to the public and has a capacity of 10 or more persons. 
Small buildings and tenant spaces. A building or ten­ant space used for assembly purposes with an occupant 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
load of less than 50 persons shall be classified as a Group B occupancy. 
Small assembly spaces. The following rooms and spaces shall not be classified as assembly occupancies: 
1. 
A room or space used for assembly purposes with an occupant load of less than 50 persons and accessory to another occupancy shall be classi­fied as a Group B occupancy or as part of that occupancy. 

2. 
A room or space used for assembly purposes that is less than 750 square feet (70 m2) in area and accessory to another occupancy shall be classi­fied as a Group B occupancy or as part of that occupancy. 



Associated with Group E occupancies. A room or space used for assembly purposes that are associated with a Group E occupancy are not considered separate occupancies. 
Accessory with places of religious worship. Acces­sory religious educational rooms and religious auditori­ums with occupant loads of less than 100 are not considered separate occupancies. 
Assembly Group A-1. Assembly uses, usually with fixed seating, intended for the production and viewing of performing arts or motion pictures including, but not limited to: 
Motion picture and television production studio Sound Stages, Approved Production Facilities and production locations. (With live audiences). 
Motion picture theaters Symphony and concert halls Television and radio studios admitting an audience Theaters 

Assembly Group A-2. Assembly uses intended for food and/or drink consumption including, but not lim­ited to: 
Banquet halls Casinos (gaming areas) Night clubs Restaurants, cafeterias and similar dining facilities 
(including associated commercial kitchens) 
Taverns and bars 


Assembly Group A-3. Assembly uses intended for worship, recreation or amusement and other assembly uses not classified elsewhere in Group A, including, but not limited to: 
Amusement arcades 
Art galleries 
Bowling alleys 
Community halls 
Courtrooms 
Dance halls 

 (not including food or drink consumption) 
Exhibition halls 
Funeral parlors 
Gymnasiums (without spectator seating) 

Indoor swimming pools (without spectator seating) Indoor tennis courts (without spectator seating) Lecture halls Libraries Museums Places of religious worship Pool and billiard parlors Waiting areas in transportation terminals 

Assembly Group A-4. Assembly uses intended for viewing of indoor sporting events and activities with spectator seating including, but not limited to: 
Arenas 
Skating rinks 
Swimming pools 
Tennis courts 


Assembly Group A-5. Assembly uses intended for participation in or viewing outdoor activities including, but not limited to: 
Amusement park structures 
Bleachers 
Grandstands 
Stadiums 


[B] Business Group B. Business Group B occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, for office, professional or service-type transactions, including storage of records and accounts. Business occupancies shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Airport traffic control towers Ambulatory care facilities serving five or fewer patients (see Group I-2.1 or Section 308.4.2 California Building Code for facilities serving more than five patients) 
Animal hospitals, kennels and pounds Banks Barber and beauty shops Car wash Civic administration Clinic-outpatient Dry cleaning and laundries: pick-up and delivery sta­
tions and self-service Educational occupancies for students above the 12th 
grade Electronic data processing Laboratories: testing, research and instruction. Motor vehicle showrooms Post offices Print shops Professional services (architects, attorneys, dentists, 
physicians, engineers, etc.) Radio and television stations Telephone exchanges Training and skill development not within a school or 
academic program 
Group C (CAMPS, ORGANIZED). An organized camp is a site with programs and facilities established for the pri­mary purpose of providing an outdoor group living experi­ence with social, spiritual, educational or recreational 
BUFF 
DEFINITIONS 
objectives, for five days or more during one or more sea­sons ofthe year. 
[B] Educational Group E. Educational Group E occu­pancy includes, among others, the use of a building or 

> 	structure, or a portion thereof, by more than six persons at any one time for educational purposes through the 12th grade. 
Exception: A residence used as a home school for the children who normally reside at the residence. Such residences shall remain classified as Group R-2, or Group R-3 occupancies. 
Accessory to places of worship. Religious educa­tional rooms and religious auditoriums, which are accessory to places of religious worship in accordance with Section 508.3.1 of the California Building Code and have occupant loads of less than 100, shall be clas­sified as Group A-3 occupancies. 
Group E, day care facilities. This group includes buildings and structures or portions thereof occupied by 

> 	more than six children 2 years of age and older who receive educational, supervision or personal care ser­vices for less than 24 hours per day. 
Exception: A Day-care facility not otherwise classi­fied as an R-3 occupancy, where occupants are not capable of responding to an emergency situation without physical assistance from the staff shall be 

> classified as Group I-4. 
[B] Factory Industrial Group F. Factory Industrial Group F occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing, packaging, repair or processing operations that are not classified as a Group H high-hazard or Group S storage occupancy. 
Factory Industrial F-1 Moderate-hazard Occu­pancy. Factory industrial uses which are not classified as Factory Industrial F-2 Low Hazard shall be classi­fied as F-1 Moderate Hazard and shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Aircraft (manufacturing, not to include repair) Appliances Athletic equipment Automobiles and other motor vehicles Bakeries Beverages; over 16-percent alcohol content Bicycles Boats Brooms or brushes Business machines Cameras and photo equipment Canvas or similar fabric Carpets and rugs (includes cleaning) Clothing Construction and agricultural machinery Disinfectants Dry cleaning and dyeing Electric generation plants 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Electronics 
Engines (including rebuilding) 

Food processing and commercial kitchens not asso­
ciated with restaurants, cafeterias and similar din­
ing facilities 
Furniture 
Hemp products 
Jute products 
Laundries 
Leather products 
Machinery 
Metals 
Millwork (sash and door) 
Motion picture and television production studio 
Sound Stages, Approved Production Facilities and 
production locations (without live audiences) < 
Musical instruments 
Optical goods 
Paper mills or products 
Photographic film 
Plastic products 
Printing or publishing 
Refuse incineration 
Shoes 
Soaps and detergents 
Textiles 
Tobacco 
Trailers 
Upholstering 
Wood; distillation 
Woodworking (cabinet) 

[B] Factory Industrial F-2 Low-hazard Occupancy. Factory industrial uses involving the fabrication or manu­facturing of noncombustible materials which, during fin­ishing, packaging or processing do not involve a significant fire hazard, shall be classified as Group F-2 occupancies and shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Beverages; up to and including 16-percent alcohol 
content 
Brick and masonry 
Ceramic products 
Foundries 
Glass products 
Gypsum 
Ice 
Metal products (fabrication and assembly) 

High-hazard Group H. High-hazard Group H occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, that involves the manufacturing, pro­cessing, generation or storage of materials that constitute a physical or health hazard in quantities in excess of those allowed in control areas complying with Section 5003.8.3, based on the maximum allowable quantity limits for con­trol areas set forth in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2). Hazardous occupancies are classified in Groups H-1, H-2, H-3, H-4 and H-5 and shall be in accordance with this code and the requirements of Section 415 of the California Building Code. Hazardous materials stored or used on top of roofs or canopies shall be classified as outdoor storage or use and shall comply with this code. 
Exceptions: The following shall not be classified as Group H, but shall be classified as the occupancy that they most nearly resemble. 
1. 	
Buildings and structures occupied for the appli­cation of flammable finishes, provided that such buildings or areas conform to the requirements of Chapter 24 of this code and Section 416 of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Wholesale and retail sales and storage of flam­mable and combustible liquids in mercantile occupancies conforming to Chapter 57. 

3. 	
Closed piping system containing flammable or combustible liquids or gases utilized for the operation of machinery or equipment. 

4. 	
Cleaning establishments that utilize combusti­ble liquid solvents having a flash point of 140°F (60°C) or higher in closed systems employing equipment listed by an approved testing agency, provided that this occupancy is separated from all other areas of the building by 1-hour fire bar­riers in accordance with Section 707 of the Cal­ifornia Building Code or 1-hour horizontal assemblies in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 

5. 	
Cleaning establishments that utilize a liquid sol­vent having a flash point at or above 200°F (93°C). 

6. 	
Liquor stores and distributors without bulk stor­age. 

7. 	
Refrigeration systems. 

8. 	
The storage or utilization of materials for agri­cultural purposes on the premises. 

9. 	
Stationary batteries utilized for facility emer­gency power, unintermptible power supply or telecommunication facilities, provided that the batteries are equipped with safety venting caps and ventilation is provided in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

10. 	
Corrosives shall not include personal or house­hold products in their original packaging used in retail display or commonly used building materials. 

11. 	
Buildings and structures occupied for aerosol storage shall be classified as Group S-1, pro­vided that such buildings conform to the requirements of Chapter 51. 

12. 	
Display and storage of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or noncombustible liquid haz­ardous materials in quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area in Group M or S occupancies complying with Sec­tion 5003.8.3.5. 



13. 	The storage of black powder, smokeless propel­lant and small arms primers in Groups M and R­3 and special industrial explosive devices in Groups B, F, M and S, provided such storage conforms to the quantity limits and require­ments of this code. 
14. 	[SFM} Group L occupancies as defined in Sec­tion 443.1. 
High-hazard Group H-1. Buildings and structures con­taining materials that pose a detonation hazard shall be classified as Group H -1. Such materials shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Detonable pyrophoric materials 
Explosives: 
Division 1.1 
Division 1.2 
Division 1.3 
Division 1.4 
Division 1.5 
Division 1.6 

Organic peroxides, unclassified detonable Oxidizers, Class 4 Unstable (reactive) materials, Class 3 detonable, and 
Class 4 
Occupancies containing explosives not classified as H-1. The following occupancies containing explosive materials shall be classified as follows: 
1. 	
Division 1.3 explosive materials that are used and maintained in a form where either confinement or configuration will not elevate the hazard from a mass fire hazard to mass explosion hazard shall be allowed in Group H-2 occupancies. 

2. 	
Articles, including articles packaged for shipment, that are not regulated as a Division 1.4 explosive under Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives regulations, or unpackaged articles used in process operations that do not propagate a detona­tion or deflagration between articles shall be allowed in H-3 occupancies. 


High-hazard Group H-2. Buildings and structures con­taining materials that pose a deflagration hazard or a haz­ard from accelerated burning shall be classified as Group H-2. Such materials shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Class I, II or IliA flammable or combustible liquids which are used or stored in normally open containers or systems, or in closed containers or systems pressurized at more than 15 pounds per square inch gauge (103.4 kPa) 
Combustible dusts where manufactured, generated or used in such a manner that the concentration and conditions create a fire or explosion hazard based on information prepared in accordance with Section 
414.1.3 of the California Building Code 
Cryogenic fluids, flammable 
Flammable gases 

Organic peroxides, Class I 
Oxidizers, Class 3, that are used or stored in normally open containers or systems, or in closed containers or systems pressurized at more than 15 pounds per square inch gauge (103.4 kPa) 
Pyrophoric liquids, solids and gases, nondetonable 
Unstable (reactive) materials, Class 3, nondetonable 
Water-reactive materials, Class 3 
High-hazard Group H-3. Buildings and structures con­taining materials that readily support combustion or that pose a physical hazard shall be classified as Group H-3. Such materials shall include, but not be limited to, the fol­lowing: 
Class I, II or IliA flammable or combustible liquids that are used or stored in normally closed containers or systems pressurized at 15 pounds per square inch gauge (103.4 kPa) or less 
Combustible fibers, other than densely packed baled 
cotton Consumer fireworks, 1.4G (Class C, Common) Cryogenic fluids, oxidizing Flammable solids Organic peroxides, Class II and III Oxidizers, Class 2 Oxidizers, Class 3, that are used or stored in normally 
closed containers or systems pressurized at 15 
pounds per square inch gauge (103 kPa) or less Oxidizing gases Unstable (reactive) materials, Class 2 Water-reactive materials, Class 2 
High-hazard Group H-4. Buildings and structures which contain materials that are health hazards shall be classified as Group H-4. Such materials shall include, but not be lim­ited to, the following: 
Corrosives 
Highly toxic materials 
Toxic materials 

High-hazard Group H-5. Semiconductor fabrication facili­ties and comparable research and development areas in which hazardous production materials (HPM) are used and the aggregate quantity of materials is in excess of those listed in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2) shall be clas­sified as Group H-5. Such facilities and areas shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section 
415.10 of the California Building Code. 

[B] Institutional Group I. Institutional Group I occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, in which care or supervision is provided to persons who are or are not capable of self preservation with­out physical assistance or in which persons are detained for penal or correctional purposes or in which the liberty of the occupants is restricted. Institutional occupancies shall be classified as Group I-1, I-2, I-3 or I-4. Restraint shall not be permitted in any building except in Group I-3 occupancies constructed for such use. See California Building Code Sec­tion 408.1.1. 
Where occupancies house both ambulatory and nonambula­tory persons, the more restrictive requirements shall apply. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE DEFINITIONS 
Institutional Group I-1. Not used. (See Group R-2.1 or < Section 310.1 California Building Code) 
Institutional Group I-2. This occupancy shall include buildings and structures used for medical care on a 24­hour basis for more than five persons who are not capable of self-preservation or classified as nonambulatory or bedridden. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Foster care facilities 
Detoxification facilities 
Hospitals 
Nursing homes 
Psychiatric hospitals 

Institutional Group 1-2.1 Ambulatory Health Care Facil-(1 ity. A Healthcare facility that receives persons for outpa­tient medical care that may render the patient incapable of unassisted self-preservation and where each tenant space accommodates more than five such patients. 
Institutional Group I-3. This occupancy shall include buildings or portions ofbuildings and structures which are inhabited by one or more persons who are under restraint < or security. An I-3 facility is occupied by persons who are generally incapable of self-preservation due to security measures not under the occupants' control which includes 
II 

persons restrained. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Correctional centers 
Courthouse holding facilities 
Detention centers 
Detention treatment rooms 
Jails 
Juvenile halls 
Prerelease centers 
Prisons 
Reformatories 

Secure interview rooms 
Temporary holding facilities 


Buildings of Group I-3 shall be classified as one of the occupancy conditions indicated below: 
Condition 1. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in which free movement is allowed from sleeping areas and other spaces where access or occu­pancy is permitted to the exterior via means of egress without restraint. A Condition 1 facility is permitted to be constructed as Group R. 
Condition 2. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in which free movement is allowed from sleeping areas and any other occupied smoke compart­ment to one or more other smoke compartments. Egress to the exterior is impeded by locked exits. 
Condition 3. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in which free movement is allowed within individual smoke compartments, such as within a resi­dential unit comprised of individual sleeping units and group activity spaces, where egress is impeded by remote-controlled release of means of egress from such smoke compartment to another smoke compartment. 
51 

> I 
> 
> 
> 
Condition 4. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in which free movement is restricted from an occupied space. Remote-controlled release is provided to permit movement from sleeping units, activity spaces and other occupied areas within the smoke com­partment to other smoke compartments. 
Condition 5. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in which free movement is restricted from an occupied space. Staff-controlled manual release is pro­vided to permit movement from sleeping units, activity spaces and other occupied areas within the smoke com­partment to other smoke compartments. 
Condition 6. This occupancy condition shall include buildings containing only one temporary holding facil­ity with five or less persons under restraint or security where the building is protected throughout with a mon­itored automatic sprinkler system installed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1 and where the temporary holding facility is protected throughout with an auto­matic fire alarm system with notification appliances. A Condition 6 building shall be permitted to be classified as a Group B occupancy. 
Condition 7. This occupancy condition shall include buildings containing only one temporary holding facil­ity with nine or less persons under restraint or security where limited to the first or second story, provided the building complies with Section 408.1.2.6. A Condition 7 building shall be permitted to be classified as a Group B occupancy. 
Condition 8. This occupancy condition shall include buildings containing not more than four secure inter­view rooms located within the same fire area where not more than six occupants under restraint are located in the same fire area. A Condition 8 building shall be per­mitted to be classified as a Group B occupancy, pro­vided the requirements in Section 408.1.2.7 are met. 
Institutional Group I-4, day care facilities. This group shall include buildings and structures occupied by more than six clients of any age who receive custodial care for less than 24 hours by persons other than parents or guard­ians, relatives by blood, marriage, or adoption, and in a place other than the home of the client cared for. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Adult day care 
Child day care 
Classification as Group E. A child day care facility that provides care for more than six but no more than 100 children under 2 years of age, where the rooms in which the children are cared for are located on a level of exit discharge serving such rooms and each of these child care rooms has an exit door directly to the exte­rior, shall be classified as Group E. 
Group L Laboratories. [SFM] Group L occupancy includes the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof containing one or more laboratory suites as defined in Section 443 ofthe California Building Code. 
[B] Mercantile Group M. Mercantile Group M occu­pancy includes, among others, the use of a building or structure or a portion thereof, for the display and sale of merchandise, and involves stocks of goods, wares or mer­chandise incidental to such purposes and accessible to the public. Mercantile occupancies shall include, but not be limited to, the following. 
Department stores 
Drug stores 
Markets 
Motor fuel-dispensing facilities 
Retail or wholesale stores 
Sales rooms 

[B] Residential Group R. Residential Group R includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a por­tion thereof, for sleeping purposes when not classified as an Institutional Group I or when not regulated by the Cali­fornia Residential Code. Residential occupancies shall include the following: 
Residential Group R-1. Residential occupancies contain­ing sleeping units where the occupants are primarily tran­sient in nature, including: 
Boarding houses (transient) with more than 10 occu­pants Congregate residences (transient) with more than 10 
occupants 
Hotels (transient) 
Motels (transient) 

Residential Group R-2. Residential occupancies contain­ing sleeping units or more than two dwelling units where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature, includ­ing: 
Apartment houses Boarding houses (nontransient) with more than 16 occupants Congregate residences (nontransient) with more 
than 16 occupants 
Convents 
Dormitories 
Fraternities and sororities 
Hotels (nontransient) 
Live/work units 
Monasteries 
Motels (nontransient) 
Vacation timeshare properties 

< 


Residential Group R-2.1. This occupancy shall include I I buildings, structures or parts thereof housing clients, on a 24-hour basis, who because of age, mental disability or other reasons, live in a supervised residential environment that provides personal care services. 
This occupancy may contain more than six nonambulatory and/or bedridden clients. (See Appendix Chapter 4, Sec­tion 425 Special Provisions For Licensed 24-Hour Care Facilities in a Group R-2.1, R-3.1, or R-4 Occupancy). This group shall include, but not be limited to, the follow­ing: 
Assisted living facilities such as: Residential Care Facilities Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE's) Adult Residential Facilities Congregate Living Health facilities 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Group homes 
Residential Care Facilities for the Chronically Ill 
Congregate Living Health Facilities for the Terminally 
Ill 
Social rehabilitation facilities such as: 
Halfway houses 
Community Correctional Centers 
Community Correction Reentry Centers 
Community Treatment Programs 
Work Furlough Programs 
Alcoholism or drug abuse recovery or treatment 
facilities 
Residential Group R-3. Residential occupancies where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature and not classified as Group R-1, R-2, R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4 or I, including: 
Boarding houses (nontransient) with 16 or fewer occu­
pants Boarding houses (transient) with 10 or fewer occupants Buildings that do not contain more than two dwelling 
units Adult care facilities that provide accommodations for six or fewer clients of any age for less than 24 hours. 
Licensing categories that may use this classification include, but are not limited to: 
Child care facilities that provide accommodations for six or fewer clients of any age for less than 24 hours 
Licensing categories that may use this classification 
include, but are not limited to: 
Day-Care Center for Mildly Ill Children 
Adult Day Programs 
Infant Care Center 
School Age Child Day-Care Center. 

Congregate residences (nontransient) with 16 or fewer occupants Congregate residences (transient) with 10 or fewer occupants 
Alcoholism or drug abuse recovery homes (ambulatory only) Foster family homes (ambulatory only) 
Family Day-Care Homes that provide accommodations for I4 or fewer children, in the provider's own home for less than 24-hours. 

Adult care and child care facilities that are within a single-family home are permitted to comply with the > California Residential Code. 
Residential R-3.1. This occupancy group may include facilities licensed by a governmental agency for a resi­dentially based 24-hour care facility providing accom­modations for six or fewer clients of any age. Clients may be classified as ambulatory, nonambulatory or bedridden. A Group R-3.1 occupancy shall meet the requirements for construction as defined for Group R­3, except as otherwise provided for in Appendix Chap­ter 4, Section 425, Special Provisions For Licensed 24­
DEFINITIONS 
Hour Care Facilities in a Group R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 Occupancy. This group may include: 
Adult Residential Facilities 
Congregate Living Health Facilities 
Foster Family Homes 
Group Homes 
Intermediate Care Facilities for the Developmentally 
Disabled Habilitative 
Intermediate Care Facilities for the Developmentally 
Disabled Nursing 
Nurseries for the full-time care ofchildren under the 
age ofsix, but not including "infants" as defined 
in Section 202 
Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly 
Small Family Homes and Residential Care Facilities 

for the Chronically Ill Exception: Group Homes licensed by the Department of Social Services which provide nonmedical board, room and care for six or fewer ambulatory children or children two years of age or younger, and which do not have any nonambulatory clients shall not be subject to regulations found in Section Appendix Chapter 4, Section 425. 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13143 with respect to these exempted facilities, no city, county, or public district shall adopt or enforce any requirement for the prevention offire or for the protection oflife and prop­erty against fire and panic unless the requirement would be applicable to a structure regardless ofthe special occu­pancy. Nothing shall restrict the application of state or local housing standards to such facilities if the standards are applicable to residential occupancies and are not based on the use of the structure as a facility for ambula­tory children. For the purpose of this exception, ambula­tory children does not include relatives of the licensee or the licensee's spouse. 
Residential Group R-4. This occupancy shall include buildings, structures or portions thereof for more than six ambulatory clients, excluding staff, who reside on a 24­hour basis in a supervised residential environment and receive custodial care. The persons receiving care are capable of self-preservation. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
This occupancy classification may include a maximum six nonambulatory or bedridden clients (see Appendix Chapter 4, Section 425, Special Provisions For Licensed 24-Hour Care Facilities in a Group R-2.1, R-3.1, or R-4 Occupancy). Group R -4 occupancies shall include the fol­lowing: 
Assisted living facilities such as: Residential care facilities Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE's) Adult Residential Facilities Congregate Living Health facilities Group homes 
Social rehabilitation facilities such as: 
Halfway houses 
Community Correctional Centers 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Community Correction Reentry Centers 
Community Treatment Programs 
Work Furlough Programs 
Alcoholism or drug abuse recovery or treatment 
facilities 

Group R-4 occupancies shall meet the requirements for constrnction as defined for Group R-3, except as otherwise provided for in the California Building Code. 
[B] Storage Group S. Storage Group S occupancy includes, among others, the use of a building or strncture, or a portion thereof, for storage that is not classified as a hazardous occupancy. 
Moderate-hazard storage, Group S-1. Buildings occu­pied for storage uses that are not classified as Group S-2, including, but not limited to, storage of the following: 
Aerosols, Levels 2 and 3 
Aircraft hangar (storage and repair) 
Bags: cloth, burlap and paper 
Bamboos and rattan 
Baskets 
Belting: canvas and leather 
Books and paper in rolls or packs 
Boots and shoes 
Buttons, including cloth covered, pearl or bone 
Cardboard and cardboard boxes 
Clothing, woolen wearing apparel 
Cordage 
Dry boat storage (indoor) 
Furniture 
Furs 
Glues, mucilage, pastes and size 
Grains 
Horns and combs, other than celluloid 
Leather 
Linoleum 
Lumber 
Motor vehicle repair garages complying with the maxi­
mum allowable quantities of hazardous materials 
listed in Table 5003.1.1(1) (see Section 406.8 of the 
California Building Code) 
Photo engravings 
Resilient flooring 
Silks 
Soaps 
Sugar 
Tires, bulk storage of 
Tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff 
Upholstery and mattresses 
Wax candles 
Low-hazard storage, Group S-2. Includes, among oth­ers, buildings used for the storage of noncombustible materials such as products on wood pallets or in paper car­tons with or without single thickness divisions; or in paper wrappings. Such products are permitted to have a negligi­ble amount of plastic trim, such as knobs, handles or film wrapping. Storage uses shall include, but not be limited to, storage of the following: 
Asbestos 
Beverages up to and including 16-percent alcohol in 
metal, glass or ceramic containers 
Cement in bags 
Chalk and crayons 
Dairy products in non waxed coated paper containers 
Dry cell batteries 
Electrical coils 
Electrical motors 
Empty cans 
Food products 
Foods in noncombustible containers 
Fresh frnits and vegetables in nonplastic trays or 
containers 
Frozen foods 
Glass 
Glass bottles, empty or filled with noncombustible 
liquids 
Gypsum board 
Inert pigments 
Ivory 
Meats 
Metal cabinets 
Metal desks with plastic tops and trim 
Metal parts 
Metals 
Mirrors 
Oil-filled and other types of distribution transformers 
Parking garages, open or enclosed 
Porcelain and pottery 
Stoves 
Talc and soapstones 
Washers and dryers 
[B] Miscellaneous Group U. Buildings and structures of an accessory character and miscellaneous structures not classified in any specific occupancy shall be constructed, equipped and maintained to conform to the requirements of this code commensurate with the fire and life hazard incidental to their occupancy. Group U shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
Agricultural buildings 
Aircraft hangar, accessory to a one-or two-family resi­
dence (see Section 412.5 of the California Build­
ing Code) 
Barns Carports Fences more than 6 feet (1829 mm) high Grain silos, accessory to a residential occupancy Greenhouses Livestock shelters Private garages Retaining walls Sheds Stables Tanks Towers 
[B] OCCUPANT LOAD. The number of persons for which the means of egress of a building or portion thereof is designed. 
OPEN BURNING. The burning of materials wherein prod­ucts of combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. Open burning does not include road flares, smudge­pots and similar devices associated with safety or occupa­tional uses typically considered open flames, recreational fires or use of portable outdoor fireplaces. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, only apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open. 
[B] 
OPEN MALL. See "Covered mall building." 

[B] 
OPEN MALL BUILDING. See "Covered mall build­ing." 

[B] 
OPEN PARKING GARAGE. A structure or portion of a structure with the openings as described in Section 406.5.2 of the California Building Code on two or more sides that is used for the parking or storage of private motor vehicles as described in Section 406.5 of the California Building Code. 


OPEN SYSTEM. The use of a solid or liquid hazardous material involving a vessel or system that is continuously open to the atmosphere during normal operations and where vapors are liberated, or the product is exposed to the atmo­sphere during normal operations. Examples of open systems for solids and liquids include dispensing from or into open beakers or containers, dip tank and plating tank operations. 
OPERATING BUILDING. A building occupied in con­junction with the manufacture, transportation or use of explo­sive materials. Operating buildings are separated from one another with the use of intraplant or intraline distances. 
OPERATING LINE. A group of buildings, facilities or workstations so arranged as to permit performance of the steps in the manufacture of an explosive or in the loading, assembly, modification and maintenance of ammunition or devices containing explosive materials. 
OPERATING PRESSURE. The pressure at which a system operates. 
ORGANIC COATING. A liquid mixture of binders such as alkyd, nitrocellulose, acrylic or oil, and flammable and com­bustible solvents such as hydrocarbon, ester, ketone or alco­hol, which, when spread in a thin film, convert to a durable protective and decorative finish. 
ORGANIC PEROXIDE. An organic compound that con­tains the bivalent -0-0-structure and which may be consid­ered to be a structural derivative of hydrogen peroxide where one or both of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an organic radical. Organic peroxides can present an explosion hazard (detonation or deflagration) or they can be shock sen­sitive. They can also decompose into various unstable com­pounds over an extended period of time. 
Class I. Describes those formulations that are capable of deflagration but not detonation. 
Class II. Describes those formulations that bum very rap­
idly and that pose a moderate reactivity hazard. 
Class III. Describes those formulations that bum rapidly and that pose a moderate reactivity hazard. 
DEFINITIONS 

Class IV. Describes those formulations that bum in the same manner as ordinary combustibles and that pose a minimal reactivity hazard. 
Class V. Describes those formulations that bum with less intensity than ordinary combustibles or do not sustain combustion and that pose no reactivity hazard. 
Unclassified detonable. Organic peroxides that are capa­ble of detonation. These peroxides pose an extremely high-explosion hazard through rapid explosive decompo­sition. 
OUTDOOR CONTROL AREA. An outdoor area that con­tains hazardous materials in amounts not exceeding the maxi­mum allowable quantities of Table 5003.1.1(3) or Table 5003.1.1(4). 
[B] OUTPATIENT CLINIC. See "Clinic-outpatient." 
OVERCROWDING. A condition that exists when either there are more people in a building, structure or portion thereof than have been authorized or posted by the fire code official, or when the fire code official determines that a threat exists to the safety of the occupants due to persons sitting and/or standing in locations that may obstruct or impede the use of aisles, passages, corridors, stairways, exits or other components of the means of egress. 
[A] OWNER. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, or a person who has legal title to any structure or premises with or with­out accompanying actual possession thereof, and shall include the duly authorized agent or attorney, a purchaser, devisee, fiduciary and any person having a vested or contin­gent interest in the premises in question. 
OXIDIZER. A material that readily yields oxygen or other oxidizing gas, or that readily reacts to promote or initiate combustion of combustible materials and, if heated or con­taminated, can result in vigorous self-sustained decomposi­tion. 
Class 4. An oxidizer that can undergo an explosive reac­tion due to contamination or exposure to thermal or physi­cal shock and that causes a severe increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes into contact. Additionally, the oxidizer causes a severe increase in the burning rate and can cause spontaneous ignition of combustibles. 
Class 3. An oxidizer that causes a severe increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes in contact. 
Class 2. An oxidizer that will cause a moderate increase in the burning rate of combustible materials with which it comes in contact. 
Class 1. An oxidizer that does not moderately increase the burning rate of combustible materials. 
OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUID. An oxidizing gas in the cryogenic state. 
OXIDIZING GAS. A gas that can support and accelerate combustion of other materials more than air does. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
OZONE-GAS GENERA TOR. Equipment which causes the production of ozone. 
[B] PANIC HARDWARE. A door-latching assembly incor­porating a device that releases the latch upon the application of a force in the direction of egress travel. See also "Fire Exit Hardware." 
PASS-THROUGH. An enclosure installed in a wall with a door on each side that allows chemicals, HPM, equipment, and parts to be transferred from one side of the wall to the other. 
[B] PENTHOUSE. An enclosed, unoccupied rooftop struc­ture used for sheltering mechanical and electrical equipment, tanks, elevators and related machinery, and vertical shaft openings. 
PERMANENT PORTABLE BUILDING. A portable build­ing that is used to serve or house students and is certified as a permanent building on a new public school campus by the public school administration shall comply with the require­ments ofnew campus buildings. 
PERMISSIBLE EXPOSURE LIMIT (PEL). The maxi­mum permitted 8-hour time-weighted-average concentration of an air-borne contaminant. The exposure limits to be uti­lized are those published in DOL 29 CFR Part 1910.1000. The Recommended Exposure Limit (REL) concentrations published by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Threshold Limit Value-Time Weighted Average (TL V-TWA) concentrations published by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), Workplace Environmental Exposure Level (WEEL) Guides published by the American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA), and other approved, consistent measures are allowed as sunogates for hazardous substances not listed in DOL 29 CFR Part 1910.1000. 
[A] 
PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the authority having jurisdiction which authorizes perfor­mance of a specified activity. 

[A] 
PERSON. An individual, heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corpora­tion, its or their successors or assigns, or the agent of any of 


> the aforesaid. 
PESTICIDE. A substance or mixture of substances, includ­ing fungicides, intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating pests and substances or a mixture of substances intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant. Products defined as drugs in the Federal Food, Drug and Cos­metic Act are not pesticides. 
[B] PHOTOLUMINESCENT. Having the property of emit­ting light that continues for a length of time after excitation by visible or invisible light has been removed. 
PHYSICAL HAZARD. A chemical for which there is evi­dence that it is a combustible liquid, cryogenic fluid, explo­sive, flammable (solid, liquid or gas), organic peroxide (solid or liquid), oxidizer (solid or liquid), oxidizing gas, pyrophoric (solid, liquid or gas), unstable (reactive) material (solid, liq­uid or gas) or water-reactive material (solid or liquid). 
PHYSIOLOGICAL WARNING THRESHOLD. A con­centration of air-borne contaminants, normally expressed in parts per million (ppm) or milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m3), that represents the concentration at which persons can sense the presence of the contaminant due to odor, irritation or other quick-acting physiological responses. When used in conjunc­tion with the permissible exposure limit (PEL), the physiologi­cal warning threshold levels are those consistent with the classification system used to establish the PEL. See the defini­tion of "Permissible exposure limit (PEL)." 
PIER. A structure built over the water, supported by pillars or piles, and used as a landing place, pleasure pavilion or sim­ilar purpose. 
[B] PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP. See "Religious Worship, Place of." 
PLOSOPHORIC MATERIAL. Two or more unmixed, commercially manufactured, prepackaged chemical sub­stances including oxidizers, flammable liquids or solids, or similar substances that are not independently classified as explosives but which, when mixed or combined, form an explosive that is intended for blasting. 
PLYWOOD AND VENEER MILLS. Facilities where raw wood products are processed into finished wood products, including waferboard, oriented strandboard, fiberboard, com­posite wood panels and plywood. 
<

PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. A portable, out­door, solid-fuel-burning fireplace that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay or other noncombustible material. A por­table outdoor fireplace may be open in design, or may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney opening in the top. 
POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCK. A forklift, tractor, platform lift truck or motorized hand truck powered by an electrical motor or internal combustion engine. Powered industrial trucks do not include farm vehicles or automotive vehicles for highway use. 
PRESSURE VESSEL. A closed vessel designed to operate at pressures above 15 psig (103 kPa). 
PRIMARY CONTAINMENT. The first level of contain­ment, consisting of the inside portion of that container which comes into immediate contact on its inner surface with the material being contained. 
PROCESS TRANSFER. The transfer of flammable or com­bustible liquids between tank vehicles or tank cars and pro­cess operations. Process operations may include containers, tanks, piping and equipment. 
PROPELLANT. The liquefied or compressed gas in an aerosol container that expels the contents from an aerosol container when the valve is actuated. A propellant is consid­ered flammable if it forms a flammable mixture with air, or if a flame is self-propagating in a mixture with air. 
PROTECTIVE SOCIAL CARE FACILITY. A facility hous­ing persons, who are referred, placed or caused to be placed in the facility, by any governmental agency and for whom the services, or a portion thereof, are paid for by any governmen­tal agency. These occupancies shall include, but are not lim­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

ited to, those commonly referred to as "assisted living facilities," "social rehabilitation facilities," "certified family care homes," "out-of-home placement facilities," and "half­way houses. " 
PROXIMATE AUDIENCE. An audience closer to pyro­technic devices than allowed by NFPA 1123. 
[B) PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS. See "Hospitals." 
PUBLIC TRAFFIC ROUTE (PTR). Any public street, road, highway, navigable stream or passenger railroad that is used for through traffic by the general public. 
[B) PUBLIC WAY. A street, alley or other parcel of land open to the outside air leading to a street, that has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use and which has a clear width and height of not less than 10 feet (3048 mm). 
PYROPHORIC. A chemical with an autoignition tempera­ture in air, at or below a temperature of 130°F (54°C). 
PYROTECHNIC ARTICLE. A pyrotechnic device for use in the entertainment industry, which is not classified as fire­works. 
PYROTECHNIC COMPOSITION. A chemical mixture that produces visible light displays or sounds through a self­propagating, heat-releasing chemical reaction which is initi­ated by ignition. 
PYROTECHNIC SPECIAL EFFECT. A visible or audible effect for entertainment created through the use of pyrotech­nic materials and devices. 
PYROTECHNIC SPECIAL-EFFECT MATERIAL. A chemical mixture used in the entertainment industry to pro­duce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Such a chemical mixture predominantly consists of solids capable of producing a controlled, self-sustaining and self-contained exothermic chemical reaction that results in heat, gas sound, light or a combination of these effects. The chemical reaction functions without external oxygen. 
PYROTECHNICS. Controlled exothermic chemical reac­tions timed to create the effects of heat, hot gas, sound, dis­persion of aerosols, emission of visible light or a combination of such effects to achieve the maximum effect from the least volume of pyrotechnic composition. 
QUANTITY-DISTANCE (Q-D). The quantity of explosive material and separation distance relationships providing pro­tection. These relationships are based on levels of risk consid­ered acceptable for the stipulated exposures and are tabulated in the appropriate Q-D tables. The separation distances speci­fied afford less than absolute safety: 
Inhabited building distance (IBD). The minimum sepa­ration distance between an operating building or magazine containing explosive materials and an inhabited building or site boundary. 
Intermagazine distance (IMD). The minimum separation distance between magazines. 
Intraline distance (ILD) or Intraplant distance (IPD). The distance to be maintained between any two operating buildings on an explosives manufacturing site when at 
DEFINITIONS 
least one contains or is designed to contain explosives, or the distance between a magazine and an operating build­ing. 
Minimum separation distance (D0). The minimum sepa­ration distance between adjacent buildings occupied in conjunction with the manufacture, transportation, storage or use of explosive materials where one of the buildings contains explosive materials and the other building does not. 

RAILWAY. A steam, electric or other railroad or railway that carriers passengers for hire. 
[B) RAMP. A walking surface that has a running slope steeper than one unit vertical in 20 units horizontal (5-percent slope). 
RAW PRODUCT. A mixture of natural materials such as tree, brush trimmings, or waste logs and stumps. 
READY BOX. A weather-resistant container with a self­closing or automatic-closing cover that protects fireworks shells from burning debris. Tarpaulins shall not be considered as ready boxes. 
RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings ("as builts") that docu­ment the location of all devices, appliances, wiring, sequences, wiring methods and connections of the compo­nents of a fire alarm system as installed. 
RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire burning materi­als other than rubbish where the fuel being burned is not con­tained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace, portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total fuel area of 3 feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes. 
REDUCED FLOW VALVE. A valve equipped with a restricted flow orifice and inserted into a compressed gas cyl­inder, portable tank or stationary tank that is designed to reduce the maximum flow from the valve under full-flow conditions. The maximum flow rate from the valve is deter­mined with the valve allowed to flow to atmosphere with no other piping or fittings attached. 
REFINERY. A plant in which flammable or combustible liq­uids are produced on a commercial scale from crude petro­leum, natural gasoline or other hydrocarbon sources. 
REFRIGERANT. The fluid used for heat transfer in a refrig­eration system; the refrigerant absorbs heat and transfers it at a higher temperature and a higher pressure, usually with a change of state. 
[M] REFRIGERATING (REFRIGERATION) SYSTEM. A combination of interconnected refrigerant-containing parts constituting one closed refrigerant circuit in which a refriger­ant is circulated for the purpose of extracting heat. 
[A] REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. An archi­tect or engineer, registered or licensed to practice profes­sional architecture or engineering, as defined by the statutory requirements of the professional registration laws of the state in which the project is to be constructed. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[B] RELIGIOUS WORSHIP, PLACE OF. A building or portion thereof intended for the performance of religious ser­vices. 
RELOCATABLE BUILDING (PUBLIC SCHOOL). Any building with an integral floor structure which is capable of being readily moved. (See Education Code Section 17350.) Relocatable buildings that are to be placed on substandard foundations not complying with the requirements of Part 2, Title 24, C. C.R., require a statement from the school district stating that the durability requirements for those foundations may be waived and acknowledging the temporary nature of 
the foundations. 
REMOTE EMERGENCY SHUTOFF DEVICE. The combination of an operator-carried signaling device and a mechanism on the tank vehicle. Activation of the remote emergency shutoff device sends a signal to the tanker­mounted mechanism and causes fuel flow to cease. 
REMOTE SOL VENT RESERVOIR. A liquid solvent con­tainer enclosed against evaporative losses to the atmosphere during periods when the container is not being utilized, except for a solvent return opening not larger than 16 square inches (10 322 mm2). Such return allows pump-cycled used solvent to drain back into the reservoir from a separate sol­vent sink or work area. 
REMOTELY LOCATED, MANUALLY ACTIVATED SHUTDOWN CONTROL. A control system that is designed to initiate shutdown of the flow of gases or liquids that is manually activated from a point located some distance from the delivery system. 
REPAIR GARAGE. A building, structure or portion thereof > used for servicing or repairing motor vehicles. 
• 	RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY FOR THE CHRONI­CALLY ILL (RCF/CI). As termed, means a housing arrangement with a maximum capacity of 25 residents that provides a range of services to residents who have chronic, life-threatening illnesses. 
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY FOR THE ELDERLY (RCFE). As defined in Health and Safety Code Section §1569.2, shall mean a facility with a housing arrangement chosen voluntarily by persons 60 years of age or over, or their authorized representative, where varying levels and intensities of care and supervision, protective supervision or personal care are provided, based on their varying needs, as determined in order to be admitted and to remain in the facil­ity. Persons under 60 years ofage with compatible needs, as determined by the Department of Social Services in regula­tions, may be allowed to be admitted or retained in a residen­tial-care facility for the elderly. 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13133, regu­lations of the state fire marshal pertaining to Group R, Divi­sion 2 Occupancies classified as Residential Facilities (RF) and Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE) shall apply uniformly throughout the state and no city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county, or fire protection district shall adopt or enforce any ordinance or local rule or regulation relating to fire and panic safety which is in consistent with these regulations. A city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county may pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13143.5, or a fire protection district may pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13869.7, adopt standards more strin­gent than those adopted by the state fire marshal that are rea­sonably necessary to accommodate local climate, geological, or topographical conditions relating to roof coverings for Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly. 
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY (RF). As defined in Section §1502 of the Health and Safety Code, shall mean any family home, group care facility, or similar facility determined by the director of Social Services, for 24-hour nonmedical care ofpersons in need ofpersonal services, supervision, or assis­tance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the individual. Such facilities include small family homes and social rehabilitation facilities. 
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13133, regu­lations of the state fire marshal pertaining to Group R, Divi­sion 2 Occupancies classified as Residential Facilities (RF) and Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE) shall apply uniformly throughout the state and no city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county, or fire protection district shall adopt or enforce any ordinance or local rule or regulation relating to fire and panic safety which is in consistent with these regulations. A city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county may pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13143.5, or a fire protection district may pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section §13869. 7, adopt standards more strin­gent than those adopted by the state fire marshal that are rea­sonably necessary to accommodate local climate, geological, or topographical conditions relating to roof coverings for Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly. 

RESIN APPLICATION AREA. An area where reinforced plastics are used to manufacture products by hand lay-up or spray-fabrication methods. 
RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person trained in the safety and fire safety considerations concerned with hot work. Responsible for reviewing the sites prior to issuing permits as part of the hot work permit program and following up as the job progresses. 
RETAIL DISPLAY AREA. The area of a Group M occu­pancy open for the purpose of viewing or purchasing mer­chandise offered for sale. Individuals in such establishments are free to circulate among the items offered for sale which are typically displayed on shelves, racks or the floor. 
RESTRAINT. [SFM]. The physical retention of a person within a room, cell or cell block, holding cells, temporary holding cell, rooms or area, holding facility, secure interview rooms, courthouse holding facilities, courtroom docks, or similar buildings or portions thereof by any means, or within the exterior walls of a building by means of locked doors inoperable by the person restrained. Restraint shall also mean the physical binding, strapping or similar restriction of any person in a chair, walker, bed or other contrivance for the purpose of deliberately restricting the free movement of ambulatory persons. 
Restraint shall not be construed to include nonambulatory persons nor shall it include the use ofbandage material, strip sheeting or other fabrics or materials (soft ties) used to restrain persons in hospital-type beds or wheelchairs to pre­vent injury, provided an approved method of quick release is maintained. 
Facilities employing the use of soft ties, however, shall be classified as a building used to house nonambulatory per­sons. Restraint shall not be practiced in licensed facilities classified as Group R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 occupancies unless constructed as a Group 1-3 occupancy. For Group 1-3 Occu­pancies see California Building Code Section 408.1.1. 
ROLL COATING. The process of coating, spreading and impregnating fabrics, paper or other materials as they are passed directly through a tank or trough containing flamma­ble or combustible liquids, or over the surface of a roller revolving partially submerged in a flammable or combustible liquid. 
RUBBISH (TRASH). Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including residue from the burning of coal, wood, coke or other combustible material, paper, rags, car­tons, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery, dust and discarded refrigerators, and heating, cooking or incinerator­type appliances. 
SAFETY CAN. An approved container of not more than 5­gallon (19 L) capacity having a spring-closing lid and spout cover so designed that it will relieve internal pressure when subjected to fire exposure. 
[B] SCISSOR STAIR. Two interlocking stairways providing two separate paths of egress located within one stairwell enclosure. 
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. That level of contain­ment that is external to and separate from primary contain­ment. 
II 	SECURE INTERVIEW ROOM. A lockable room used to hold and interview detainees for further processing. 
SEED COTTON. See "Cotton." 
SEGREGATED. Storage in the same room or inside area, but physically separated by distance from incompatible mate­rials. 
[B] 
SELF-CLOSING. As applied to a fire door or other opening, means equipped with an approved device that will ensure closing after having been opened. 

[B] 
SELF-LUMINOUS. Illuminated by a self-contained power source, other than batteries, and operated indepen­dently of external power sources. 

[B] 
SELF-PRESERVATION, INCAPABLE OF. See "Incapable of Self-Preservation." 


SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACIL­ITY. That portion of motor fuel-dispensing facility where liq­uid motor fuels are dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than a motor fuel-dispensing facility attendant. 
SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITY. A building or a portion of a building in which electrical circuits 
DEFINITIONS 

or devices are created on solid crystalline substances having electrical conductivity greater than insulators but less than conductors. These circuits or devices are commonly known as semiconductors. 
SERVICE CORRIDOR. A fully enclosed passage used for transporting HPM and purposes other than required means of egress. 
SHELF STORAGE. Storage on shelves less than 30 inches (762 mm) deep with the distance between shelves not exceed­ing 3 feet (914 mm) vertically. For other shelving arrange­ments, see the requirements for rack storage. 
SINGLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM. An assembly incorporating the detector, the control equipment and the alarm-sounding device in one unit, operated from a power supply either in the unit or obtained at the point of installa­tion. 
[B] SITE. A parcel of land bounded by a lot line or a desig­nated portion of a public right-of-way. 
SITE-FABRICATED STRETCH SYSTEM. A system, fabricated on site and intended for acoustical, tackable or aes­thetic purposes, that is comprised of three elements: 
1. 	
A frame constructed of plastic, wood, metal or other material used to hold fabric in place; 

2. 	
A core material (infill, with the correct properties for the application); and 

3. 	
An outside layer, comprised of a textile, fabric or vinyl, that is stretched taut and held in place by tension or mechanical fasteners via the frame. 



[B] SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include permanent provisions for liv­ing, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling unit are not sleeping units. 
SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION. A shotgun, rifle or pistol cartridge and any cartridge for propellant-actuated devices. This definition does not include military ammunition contain­ing bursting charges or incendiary, trace, spotting or pyro­technic projectiles. 
SMALL ARMS PRIMERS. Small percussion-sensitive explosive charges, encased in a cap, used to ignite propellant powder. 
SMOKE ALARM. A single-or multiple-station alarm responsive to smoke. See also "Single-station Smoke Alarm" and "Multiple-Station Smoke Alarm." 
[B] 
SMOKE BARRIER. A continuous membrane, either vertical or horizontal, such as a wall, floor, or ceiling assem­bly, that is designed and constructed to restrict the movement of smoke. 

[B] 
SMOKE COMPARTMENT. A space within a building enclosed by smoke barriers on all sides, including the top and bottom. 

[B] 
SMOKE DAMPER. A listed device installed in ducts and air transfer openings designed to resist the passage of smoke. The device is installed to operate automatically, con­


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
trolled by a smoke detection system, and where required, is capable of being positioned from a fire command center. 
SMOKE DETECTOR. A listed device that senses visible or invisible particles of combustion. 
[B] 
SMOKE-DEVELOPED INDEX. A comparative mea­sure, expressed as a dimensionless number, derived from measurements of smoke obscuration versus time for a mate­rial tested in accordance with ASTM E 84. 

[B] 
SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY SEATING. Seating served by means of egress that is not subject to smoke accumulation within or under a structure. 


SMOKELESS PROPELLANTS. Solid propellants, com­monly referred to as smokeless powders, used in small arms ammunition, cannons, rockets, propellant-actuated devices and similar articles. 
[B] SMOKEPROOF ENCLOSURE. An exit stairway designed and constructed so that the movement of the prod­ucts of combustion produced by a fire occurring in any part of the building into the enclosure is limited. 
SOLID. A material that has a melting point and decomposes or sublimes at a temperature greater than 68°F (20°C). 
SOLID SHELVING. Shelving that is solid, slatted or of other construction located in racks and which obstructs sprin­kler discharge down into the racks. 
SOLVENT DISTILLATION UNIT. An appliance that receives contaminated flammable or combustible liquids and which distills the contents to remove contaminants and recover the solvents. 
SOLVENT OR LIQUID CLASSIFICATIONS. A method for classifying solvents or liquids according to the following classes: 
Class I solvents. Liquids having a flash point below 100°F (38°C). 
Class II solvents. Liquids having a flash point at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C). 
Class IliA solvents. Liquids having a flash point at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (930C). 
Class IIIB solvents. Liquids having a flash point at or above 200°F (93°C). 
Class IV solvents. Liquids classified as nonflammable. 
SPECIAL AMUSEMENT BUILDING. A building that is temporary, permanent or mobile that contains a device or sys­tem that conveys passengers or provides a walkway along, around or over a course in any direction as a form of amuse­ment arranged so that the egress path is not readily apparent due to visual or audio distractions or an intentionally con­founded egress path, or is not readily available because of the mode of conveyance through the building or structure. 
SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. An explosive power pack containing an explosive charge in the form of a cartridge or construction device. The term includes but is not limited to explosive rivets, explosive bolts, explo­sive charges for driving pins or studs, cartridges for explo­sive-actuated power tools and charges of explosives used in automotive air bag inflators, jet tapping of open hearth fur­naces and jet perforation of oil well casings. 
SPRAY BOOTH. A mechanically ventilated appliance of varying dimensions and construction provided to enclose or accommodate a spraying operation and to confine and limit the escape of spray vapor and residue and to exhaust it safely. 
SPRAY ROOM. A room designed to accommodate spraying operations, constructed in accordance with the California Building Code and separated from the remainder of the build­ing by a minimum 1-hour fire barrier. 
SPRAYING SPACE. An area in which dangerous quantities of flammable vapors or combustible residues, dusts or depos­its are present due to the operation of spraying processes. The fire code official is authorized to define the limits of the spraying space in any specific case. 
[B] 
STAIR. A change in elevation, consisting of one or more risers. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY. One or more flights of stairs, either exte­rior or interior, with the necessary landings and platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted pas­sage from one level to another. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, EXIT ACCESS. See "Exit access stairway." 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, EXTERIOR. A stairway that is open on at least one side, except for required structural columns, beams, handrails and guards. The adjoining open areas shall be either yards, courts or public ways. The other sides of the exterior stairway need not be open. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, INTERIOR. A stairway not meeting the definition of an exterior stairway. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, INTERIOR EXIT. See "Interior Exit Stairway." 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, SPIRAL. A stairway having a closed cir­cular form in its plan view with uniform section-shaped treads attached to and radiating from a minimum-diameter supporting column. 


STANDPIPE SYSTEM, CLASSES OF. Standpipe system classes are as follows: 
Class I system. A system providing 21/ 2-inch (64 mm) hose connections to supply water for use by fire depart­ments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams. 
Class II system. A system providing 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) hose stations to supply water for use primarily by the building occupants or by the fire department during initial response. 
Class III system. A system providing 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) hose stations to supply water for use by building occu­pants and 21/ 2-inch (64 mm) hose connections to supply a larger volume of water for use by fire departments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams. 
STANDPIPE, TYPES OF. Standpipe types are as follows: 
Automatic dry. A dry standpipe system, normally filled with pressurized air, that is arranged through the use of a device, such as a dry pipe valve, to admit water into the system piping automatically upon the opening of a hose valve. The water supply for an automatic dry standpipe system shall be capable of supplying the system demand. 
Automatic wet. A wet standpipe system that has a water supply that is capable of supplying the system demand automatically. 
Manual dry. A dry standpipe system that does not have a permanent water supply attached to the system. Manual dry standpipe systems require water from a fire depart­ment pumper to be pumped into the system through the fire department connection in order to supply the system demand. 
Manual wet. A wet standpipe system connected to a water supply for the purpose of maintaining water within the system but which does not have a water supply capable of delivering the system demand attached to the system. Manual wet standpipe systems require water from a fire department pumper (or the like) to be pumped into the sys­tem in order to supply the system demand. 
Semiautomatic dry. A dry standpipe system that is arranged through the use of a device, such as a deluge valve, to admit water into the system piping upon activa­tion of a remote control device located at a hose connec­tion. A remote control activation device shall be provided at each hose connection. The water supply for a semiauto­matic dry standpipe system shall be capable of supplying the system demand. 

STATE-OWNED/LEASED BUILDING. A building or por­
tion ofa building that is owned, leased or rented by the state. 
State-leased buildings shall include all required exits to a 
public way serving such leased area or space. Portions of 
state-leased buildings that are not leased or rented by the 
state shall not be included within the scope of this section 
unless such portions present an exposure hazard to the state­
leased area or space. 
STATIC PILES. Piles in which processed wood product is mounded and is not being turned or moved. 
STEEL. Hot-or cold-rolled as defined by the California Building Code. 
STORAGE, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. The keeping, retention or leaving of hazardous materials in closed contain­ers, tanks, cylinders, or similar vessels; or vessels supplying operations through closed connections to the vessel. 
[B] 
STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above (also see "Mezzanine" and Section 502.1 of the California Building Code). It is measured as the vertical distance from top to top of two successive tiers of beams or finished floor surfaces and, for the topmost story, from the top of the floor finish to the top of the ceiling joists or, where there is not a ceiling, to the top of the roof rafters. 

[B] 
STORY ABOVE GRADE PLANE. Any story having its finished floor surface entirely above grade plane, or in which the finished surface of the floor next above is: 


1. 
More than 6 feet (1829 mm) above grade plane; or 

2. 
More than 12 feet (3658 mm) above the finished 



• ground level at any point. 
DEFINITIONS 

SUPERVISING STATION. A facility that receives signals and at which personnel are in attendance at all times to respond to these signals. 
SUPERVISORY SERVICE. The service required to moni­tor performance of guard tours and the operative condition of fixed suppression systems or other systems for the protection of life and property. 
SUPERVISORY SIGNAL. A signal indicating the need of action in connection with the supervision of guard tours, the fire suppression systems or equipment, or the maintenance features of related systems. 
SUPERVISORY SIGNAL-INITIATING DEVICE. An initiating device such as a valve supervisory switch, water level indicator, or low-air pressure switch on a dry-pipe sprin­kler system whose change of state signals an off-normal con­dition and its restoration to normal of a fire protection or life safety system; or a need for action in connection with guard tours, fire suppression systems or equipment, or maintenance features of related systems. 
SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment consisting of a tank, container or containers, appurtenances, pumps, compressors and connecting piping. 
TANK. A vessel containing more than 60 gallons (227 L). 
TANK, ATMOSPHERIC. A storage tank designed to oper­ate at pressures from atmospheric through 1.0 pound per square inch gauge (760 mm Hg through 812 mm Hg) mea­sured at the top of the tank. 
TANK, PORTABLE. A packaging of more than 60-gallon (227 L) capacity and designed primarily to be loaded into or on or temporarily attached to a transport vehicle or ship and equipped with skids, mountings or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means. It does not include any cylinder having less than a 1,000-pound (454 kg) water capacity, cargo tank, tank car tank or trailers cmrying cylin­ders of more than 1 ,000-pound ( 454 kg) water capacity. 
TANK, PRIMARY. A listed atmospheric tank used to store liquid. See "Primary containment." 
TANK, PROTECTED ABOVE GROUND. A tank listed in accordance with UL 2085 consisting of a primary tank pro­vided with protection from physical damage and fire-resistive protection from a high-intensity liquid pool fire exposure. The tank may provide protection elements as a unit or may be an assembly of components, or a combination thereof. 
TANK, STATIONARY. Packaging designed primarily for stationary installations not intended for loading, unloading or attachment to a transport vehicle as part of its normal opera­tion in the process of use. It does not include cylinders having less than a 1,000-pound (454 kg) water capacity. 
TANK VEHICLE. A vehicle other than a railroad tank car or boat, with a cargo tank mounted thereon or built as an inte­gral part thereof, used for the transportation of flammable or combustible liquids, LP-gas or hazardous chemicals. Tank vehicles include self-propelled vehicles and full trailers and semitrailers, with or without motive power, and carrying part or all of the load. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TEMPORARY HOLDING CELL, ROOM or AREA [CSA and SFM]. Temporary Holding cell, room or area shall mean a room for tempormy holding of inmates, detainees, or in-custody individuals for less than 24 hours. 
TEMPORARY HOLDING FACILITY [SFM]. A building or portion of a building, operated by law enforcement person­nel, with one or more temporary holding cells or rooms. 
TENABLE ENVIRONMENT [SFM]. Tenable environment shall mean an environment in which the products ofcombus­tion, toxic gases, smoke and heat are limited or otherwise restricted to maintain the impact on occupants to a level that is not life threatening. 
TENT. A structure, enclosure or shelter, with or without sidewalls or drops, constructed of fabric or pliable material supported by any manner except by air or the contents that it protects. 
[Relocated from chapter 31] 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §310.(a) through (c)] Definitions. 
(a) 
Tent. A shelter, structure or enclosure made offabric or similar pliable material. 

(b) 
Large tent. A tent designed for use by 10 or more people. 

(c) 
Small tent. A tent designed for 	use by less than 10 people. 


TERMINALLY ILL. As termed for an individual, means the individual has a life expectancy ofsix months or less as stated in writing by his or her attending physician and surgeon. 
THEFT RESISTANT. Construction designed to deter ille­gal entry into facilities for the storage of explosive materials. 
• 	TIMBER AND LUMBER PRODUCTION Ji'ACILITIES. Facilities where raw wood products are processed into fin­ished wood products. 
TIRES, BULK STORAGE OF. Storage of tires where the area available for storage exceeds 20,000 cubic feet (566m3). 
TOOL. A device, storage container, workstation or process machine used in a fabrication area. 
TORCH-APPLIED ROOF SYSTEM. Bituminous roofing systems using membranes that are adhered by heating with a torch and melting asphalt back coating instead of mopping hot asphalt for adhesion. 
[B] TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit con­structed in a group of three or more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to roof and with open space on at least two sides. 
TOXIC. A chemical falling within any of the following cate­gories: 
1. 	
A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of more than 50 milligrams per kilogram, but not more than 500 milligrams per kilogram of body weight when administered orally to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 grams each. 

2. 	
A chemical that has a median lethal close (LD50) of more than 200 milligrams per kilogram but not more 


than 1 ,000 milligrams per kilogram of body weight when administered by continuous contact for 24 hours (or less if death occurs within 24 hours) with the bare skin of albino rabbits weighing between 2 and 3 kilo­grams each. 
3. 	A chemical that has a median lethal concentration (LC50) in air of more than 200 parts per million but not more than 2,000 parts per million by volume of gas or vapor, or more than 2 milligrams per liter but not more than 20 milligrams per liter of mist, fume or dust, when administered by continuous inhalation for 1 hour (or less if death occurs within 1 hour) to albino rats weigh­ing between 200 and 300 grams each. 
TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICES. Traffic calming devices are design elements of fire apparatus access roads such as street alignment, installation of baniers, and other physical measures intended to reduce traffic and cut-through volumes, and slow vehicle speeds. 
[B] 
TRANSIENT. Occupancy of a dwelling unit or sleeping unit for not more than 30 days. 

[B] 
TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT. Aircraft based at another location and that is at the transient location for not more than 90 clays. 


TRANSVERSE FLUE SPACE. See "Flue space-Trans­verse." 
TRASH. See "Rubbish." 
TROUBLE SIGNAL. A signal initiated by the fire alarm system or device indicative of a fault in a monitored circuit or component. 
TUBE TRAILER. A semitrailer on which a number of tubu­lar gas cylinders have been mounted. A manifold is typically provided that connects the cylinder valves enabling gas to be discharged from one or more tubes or cylinders through a piping and control system. 
[B] TWENTY-FOUR HOUR CARE. See "24-hour Care" before the "A" entries. 
UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE. A release or emission of materials in a manner which does not conform to the provi­sions of this code or applicable public health and safety regu­lations. 
UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIAL. A material, other than an explosive, which in the pure state or as commercially produced, will vigorously polymerize, decompose, condense or become self-reactive and undergo other violent chemical changes, including explosion, when exposed to heat, friction or shock, or in the absence of an inhibitor, or in the presence of contaminants, or in contact with incompatible materials. Unstable (reactive) materials are subdivided as follows: 
Class 4. Materials that in themselves are readily capable of detonation or explosive decomposition or explosive reaction at normal temperatures and pressures. This class includes materials that are sensitive to mechanical or localized thermal shock at normal temperatures and pres­sures. 
Class 3. Materials that in themselves are capable of deto­nation or of explosive decomposition or explosive reaction 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
but which require a strong initiating source or which must be heated under confinement before initiation. This class includes materials that are sensitive to thermal or mechan­ical shock at elevated temperatures and pressures. 
Class 2. Materials that in themselves are normally unstable and readily undergo violent chemical change but do not det­onate. This class includes materials that can undergo chemi­cal change with rapid release of energy at normal temperatures and pressures, and that can undergo violent chemical change at elevated temperatures and pressures. 
Class 1. Materials that in themselves are normally stable but which can become unstable at elevated temperatures and pressure. 

UNWANTED FIRE. A fire not used for cooking, heating or recreational purposes or one not incidental to the normal operations of the property. 
USE (MATERIAL). Placing a material into action, includ­ing solids, liquids and gases. 
VAPOR PRESSURE. The pressure exerted by a volatile fluid as determined in accordance with ASTM D 323. 
[M] VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space. 
VESSEL. A motorized watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of trans­portation. Nontransportation vessels, such as houseboats and boathouses, are included in this definition. 
VISIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. A notification appliance that alerts by the sense of sight. 
WATER-REACTIVE MATERIAL. A material that explodes; violently reacts; produces flammable, toxic or other hazardous gases; or evolves enough heat to cause autoigni­tion or ignition of combustibles upon exposure to water or moisture. Water-reactive materials are subdivided as follows: 
Class 3. Materials that react explosively with water with­out requiring heat or confinement. 
Class 2. Materials that react violently with water or have the ability to boil water. Materials that produce flammable, toxic or other hazardous gases, or evolve enough heat to cause autoignition or ignition of combustibles upon expo­sure to water or moisture. 
Class 1. Materials that react with water with some release of energy, but not violently. 
DEFINITIONS 

WAITING ROOM. [SFM] Waiting room is a room or area 
normally provided with seating and used for persons waiting. 
WET-CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT. A solu­tion of water and potassium-carbonate-based chemical, potas­sium-acetate-based chemical or a combination thereof, forming an extinguishing agent. 
WET FUELING. See "Mobile Fueling." 
WET HOSING. See "Mobile Fueling." 
WHARF. A structure or bulkhead constructed of wood, stone, concrete or similar material built at the shore of a har­bor, lake or river for vessels to lie alongside of, and to anchor piers or floats. 
WILDFIRE RISK AREA. Land that is covered with grass, grain, brush or forest, whether privately or publicly owned, which is so situated or is of such inaccessible location that a fire originating upon it would present an abnormally difficult job of suppression or would result in great or unusual damage through fire or such areas designated by the fire code official. 
[B] WINDER. A tread with nonparallel edges. 
WINERY CAVES. A subterranean space for winery facilities in natural or manmade caves shall be in accordance with Section 436 ofthe California Building Code. I I 
WIRELESS PROTECTION SYSTEM. A system or a part of a system that can transmit and receive signals without the aid of wire. 
WORKSTATION. A defined space or an independent prin­cipal piece of equipment using HPM within a fabrication area where a specific function, laboratory procedure or research activity occurs. Approved or listed hazardous materials stor­age cabinets, flammable liquid storage cabinets or gas cabi­nets serving a workstation are included as part of the workstation. A workstation is allowed to contain ventilation equipment, fire protection devices, detection devices, electri­cal devices and other processing and scientific equipment. 
[B] YARD. An open space, other than a court, unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except where specifically pro­vided by the California Building Code, on the lot on which a building is situated. 
ZONE. A defined area within the protected premises. A zone can define an area from which a signal can be received, an area to which a signal can be sent or an area in which a form of control can be executed. 
ZONE, NOTIFICATION. An area within a building orfa­cility covered by notification appliances which are activated simultaneously. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 3 -GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

> 
* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn I proviSIOns that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part 11-General Safety Provisions 
CHAPTER 3 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

SECTION 301 
GENERAL 


[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.14] Fire Hazard. 
No person, including but not limited to the State and its polit­ical subdivisions, operating any occupancy subject to Cali­fornia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations shall permit any fire hazard, as defined in this article, to exist on premises under their control, or fail to take immediate action to abate a fire hazard when requested to do so by the enforcing agency. 
Note: "Fire Hazard" as used in California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations means any condition, arrangement, or act which will increase, or may cause an increase of, the hazard or menace offire to a greater degree than customarily recognized as normal by persons in the pub­lic service ofpreventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may become the cause of obstruction, delay or hindrance to the prevention, suppression, or extinguishment offire. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.19(a) through (g)] Housekeeping. 
< 

Every building or portion ofa building governed by Califor­
nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations 
shall be maintained in a neat orderly manner, free from any 
condition that would create a fire or life hazard or a condi­tion which would add to or contribute to the rapid spread of fire. Provisions shall be made for the proper storage and dis­posal of waste materials and rubbish consistent with the fol­lowing: 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(b) All combustible waste material and rubbish shall be SECTION 303 
stored in approved containers or shall be stored in a manner approved by the enforcing agency as being consistent with standard fire prevention practices until such waste material and rubbish is removed from the premises or otherwise dis­posed ofin a proper manner. 
(
1) Containers with a capacity exceeding 5.33 cubic feet ( 40 gallons) ( 0.15 m3) shall comply with the provisions of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, Section 

(2) 
Wastebaskets and linen containers in Group I-2 and I­3 occupancies shall comply with the provisions of Califor­nia Code ofRegulations Title 24, Part 9, Section 808. 

(c) 
Approved self-closing metal containers or listed dis­posal containers by an approved testing or listing agency shall be provided and maintained in all rooms or locations where oily rags, oily waste, paint rags, or similar materials subject to spontaneous ignition are used, or are stored temporarily. Such containers shall be emptied daily. 

(d) 
Ashes shall not be placed in, on, or near combusti­ble material, but shall be placed in approved metal containers, until removed from the premises or other­wise properly disposed of 

(e) 
No dry vegetation shall be permitted to exist within 20 feet ofany building or occupancies subject to Califor­nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regula­tions. 

(f) 
Except when permitted by the enforcing agency, boiler rooms, mechanical rooms, transformer and switchgear vaults and electrical panel rooms, shall not be used for storage. 

(g) 
Electric motors, filters on heating equipment, and grease hoods shall be checked periodically and kept clean and maintained in a safe operating condition. 


304.3. 
301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the occupancy and maintenance of all structures and premises for precautions against fire and the spread of fire and general requirements of fire safety. 
301.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6 for the activities or uses regulated by Sections 306, 307, 308 and 315. 
SECTION 302 
DEFINITIONS 


302.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
BONFIRE. 
HI-BOY. 
HIGH-VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE. 
OPEN BURNING. 
PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. 
POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCK. 
RECREATIONAL FIRE. 
ASPHALT KETTLES 

303.1 Transporting. Asphalt (tar) kettles shall not be trans­ported over any highway, road or street when the heat source for the kettle is operating. 
Exception: Asphalt (tar) kettles in the process of patching road surfaces. 
303.2 Location. Asphalt (tar) kettles shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of any combustible material, com­bustible building surface or any building opening and within a controlled area identified by the use of traffic cones, barri­ers or other approved means. Asphalt (tar) kettles and pots shall not be utilized inside or on the roof of a building or structure. Roofing kettles and operating asphalt (tar) kettles shall not block means of egress, gates, roadways or entrances. 
303.3 Location of fuel containers. Fuel containers shall be located at least 10 feet (3048 mm) from the burner. 
Exception: Containers properly insulated from heat or flame are allowed to be within 2 feet (610 mm) of the burner. 
303.4 Attendant. An operating kettle shall be attended by a minimum of one employee knowledgeable of the operations and hazards. The employee shall be within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of the kettle and have the kettle within sight. Ladders or similar obstacles shall not form a part of the route between the attendant and the kettle. 
303.5 Fire extinguishers. There shall be a portable fire extin­guisher complying with Section 906 and with a minimum 40­
B:C rating within 25 feet (7620 mm) of each asphalt (tar) ket­tle during the period such kettle is being utilized. Addition­ally, there shall be one portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 3-A:40-B:C rating on the roof being covered. 
303.6 Lids. Asphalt (tar) kettles shall be equipped with tight­fitting lids. 
303.7 Hi-boys. Hi-boys shall be constructed of noncombusti­ble materials. Hi-boys shall be limited to a capacity of 55 gal­lons (208 L). Fuel sources or heating elements shall not be allowed as part of a hi-boy. 
303.8 Roofing kettles. Roofing kettles shall be constructed of noncombustible materials. 
303.9 Fuel containers under air pressure. Fuel containers that operate under air pressure shall not exceed 20 gallons (76 L) in capacity and shall be approved. 
SECTION 304 
COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATERIAL 

304.1 Waste accumulation prohibited. Combustible waste material creating a fire hazard shall not be allowed to accu­mulate in buildings or structures or upon premises. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.07(a)] Clearances. 
(a) General. No combustible material shall be placed or stored within 10 feet ofany building or structure. 
304.1.1 Waste material. Accumulations of wastepaper, wood, hay, straw, weeds, litter or combustible or flamma­ble waste or rubbish of any type shall not be permitted to remain on a roof or in any court, yard, vacant lot, alley, parking lot, open space, or beneath a grandstand, bleacher, pier, wharf, manufactured home, recreational vehicle or other similar structure. 
304.1.2 Vegetation. Weeds, grass, vines or other growth that is capable of being ignited and endangering property, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the premises. Vegetation clearance requirements in urban-wildland interface areas shall be in accordance with 
Chapter49. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.07(b)] Clearances. 
(b) Ground Clearance. The space surrounding every building or structure shall be maintained in accor­dance with the following: 
Any person that owns, leases, controls, operates, or maintains any building or structure in, upon, or adjoin­ing any mountainous area or forest-covered lands, brush covered lands, or grass-covered lands, or any land which is covered with flammable material, shall at all times do all ofthe following: 
(1) 
Maintain around and adjacent to such building or structure a firebreak made by removing and clearing away, for a distance ofnot less than 30 feet on each side thereof or to the property line, which­ever is nearer, all flammable vegetation or other combustible growth. This section does not apply to single specimens of trees, ornamental shrubbery, or similar plants which are used as ground cover, if they do not form a means ofrapidly transmitting fire from the native growth to any building or structure. 

(2) 
Maintain around and adjacent to any such build­ing or structure additional fire protection or fire­break made by removing all bush, flammable vegetation, or combustible growth which is located from 30 feet to 100 feet from such building or struc­ture or to the property line, whichever is nearer, as may be required by the enforcing agency if he finds that, because of extra hazardous conditions, a fire­break ofonly 30 feet around such building or struc­ture is not sufficient to provide reasonable fire safety. Grass and other vegetation located more than 30 feet from such building or structure and less than 18 inches in height above the ground may be maintained where necessary to stabilize the soil and prevent erosion. 

(3) 
Remove that portion of any tree which extends within 10 feet of the outlet ofany chimney or stove­pipe. 

(
4) Cut and remove all dead or dying portions of trees located adjacent to or overhanging any build­ing. 

(
5) Maintain the roofofany structure free ofleaves, needles, or other dead vegetative growth. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
(6) 
Provide and maintain at all times a screen over the outlet of every chimney or stovepipe that is attached to any fireplace, stove, or other device that burns any solid or liquid fuel. The screen shall be constructed of nonflammable material with open­ings ofnot more than 112 inch in size. 

(7) 
Vegetation around all applicable buildings and structures shall be maintained in accordance with the following laws and regulations: 

(A) 
Public Resources Code Section 4291. 

(B) 
California Code of Regulations Title 14 -Natural Resources, Division 1.5 -Department of Forest;y and Fire Protection, "General Guideline to Create Defen­sible Space." 

(C) 
California Government Code Section 51182. 

(D) 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 24, Part 9. 



304.1.3 Space underneath seats. Spaces underneath grandstand and bleacher seats shall be kept free from com­bustible and flammable materials. Except where enclosed in not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction in accordance with the California Building Code, spaces underneath grandstand and bleacher seats shall not be occupied or utilized for purposes other than means of egress. 
304.2 Storage. Storage of combustible rubbish shall not pro­duce conditions that will create a nuisance or a hazard to the public health, safety or welfare. 
304.3 Containers. Combustible rubbish, and waste material kept within or near a structure shall be stored in accordance with Sections 304.3.1 through 304.3.4. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.19(b) and (c)] Housekeeping. 
Every building or portion of a building governed by Califor­
<

nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations shall be maintained in a neat orderly manner, free from any condition that would create a fire or life hazard or a condi­tion which would add to or contribute to the rapid spread of fire. Provisions shall be made for the proper storage and dis­posal of waste materials and rubbish consistent with the fol­
lowing: 
(b) 
All combustible waste material and rubbish shall be stored in approved containers or shall be stored in a manner approved by the enforcing agency as being consistent with standard fire prevention practices until such waste material and rubbish is removed from the premises or otherwise disposed of in a proper manner. 

(1) 
Containers with a capacity exceeding 5.33 cubic feet (40 gallons) (0.15 m3) shall comply with the provisions of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, Section 304.3. 

(2) 
Wastebaskets and linen containers in Group 1-2 and I-3 occupancies shall comply with the provi­sions of California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 9, Section 808. 



(c) Approved self-closing metal containers or listed dis­posal containers by an approved testing or listing agency shall be provided and maintained in all rooms or locations where oily rags, oily waste, paint rags, or similar materials subject to spontaneous ignition are used, or are stored temporarily. Such containers shall be emptied daily. 
304.3.1 Spontaneous ignition. Materials susceptible to spontaneous ignition, such as oily rags, shall be stored in a listed disposal container. Contents of such containers shall be removed and disposed of daily. 
304.3.2 Capacity exceeding 5.33 cubic feet. Containers with a capacity exceeding 5.33 cubic feet (40 gallons) 
(0.15 m3) shall be provided with lids. Containers and lids shall be constructed of noncombustible materials or of combustible materials with a peak rate of heat release not exceeding 300 kW/m2 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354 at an incident heat flux of 50 kW/m2 in the horizontal orientation. 
Exception: Wastebaskets complying with Section 808. 
304.3.3 Capacity exceeding 1.5 cubic yards. Dumpsters and containers with an individual capacity of 1.5 cubic yards [40.5 cubic feet (1.15 m3)] or more shall not be stored in buildings or placed within 5 feet (1524 mm) of combustible walls, openings or combustible roof eave lines. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Dumpsters or containers in areas protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 
903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3. 

2. 	Storage in a structure shall not be prohibited where the structure is of Type I or IIA construc­tion, located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from other buildings and used exclusively for dumpster or container storage. 
304.3.4 Capacity of 1 cubic yard or more. Dumpsters with an individual capacity of 1.0 cubic yard [200 gallons 
(0.76 m3)] or more shall not be stored in buildings or placed within 5 feet (1524 mm) of combustible walls, openings or combustible roof eave lines unless the dump­sters are constructed of noncombustible materials or of combustible materials with a peak rate of heat release not exceeding 300 kW/m2 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354 at an incident heat flux of 50 kW/m2 in the horizontal orientation. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Dumpsters in areas protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3. 

2. 	
Storage in a structure shall not be prohibited where the structure is of Type I or IIA construe­


tion, located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from other buildings and used exclusively for dumpster or container storage. 
SECTION 305 
IGNITION SOURCES 


305.1 Clearance from ignition sources. Clearance between ignition sources, such as luminaires, heaters, flame-producing devices and combustible materials, shall be maintained in an approved manner. 
305.2 Hot ashes and spontaneous ignition sources. Hot ashes, cinders, smoldering coals or greasy or oily materials subject to spontaneous ignition shall not be deposited in a combustible receptacle, within 10 feet (3048 mm) of other combustible material including combustible walls and parti­tions or within 2 feet (610 mm) of openings to buildings. 
Exception: The minimum required separation distance to other combustible materials shall be 2 feet (610 mm) where the material is deposited in a covered, noncombusti­ble receptacle placed on a noncombustible floor, ground smface or stand. 
305.3 Open-flame warning devices. Open-flame warning devices shall not be used along an excavation, road, or any place where the dislodgment of such device might permit the device to roll, fall or slide on to any area or land containing combustible material. 
305.4 Deliberate or negligent burning. It shall be unlawful to deliberately or through negligence set fire to or cause the burning of combustible material in such a manner as to endanger the safety of persons or property. 
SECTION 306 MOTION PICTURE PROJECTION ROOMS AND FILM 
306.1 Motion picture projection rooms. Electric arc, xenon or other light source projection equipment which develops hazardous gases, dust or radiation and the projection of rib­bon-type cellulose nitrate film, regardless of the light source used in projection, shall be operated within a motion picture projection room complying with Section 409 of the Califor­nia Building Code. 
306.2 Cellulose nitrate film storage. Storage of cellulose nitrate film shall be in accordance with NFPA 40. 
SECTION 307 
OPEN BURNING, RECREATIONAL FIRES AND 
PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES 

307.1 General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in accordance with Sections 
307.1.1 through 307.5. 
307.1.1 Prohibited open burning. Open burning shall be prohibited when atmospheric conditions or local circum­stances make such fires hazardous. 
Exception: Prescribed burning for the purpose of reducing the impact of wildland fire when authorized by the fire code official. 

307.2 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire code official in accordance with Section 105.6 prior to kindling a fire for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease or pests, or a bonfire. Application for such approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of the land upon which the fire is to be kindled. 
307.2.1 Authorization. Where required by state or local law or regulations, open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from the state or local air and water quality management authority, provided that all conditions specified in the authorization are followed. 

307.3 Extinguishment authority. When open burning cre­ates or adds to a hazardous situation, or a required permit for open burning has not been obtained, the fire code official is authorized to order the extinguishment of the open burning operation. 
307.4 Location. The location for open burning shall not be less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from any structure, and provi­sions shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading to within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of any structure. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet (4572 mm) from a structure. 

2. 	
The minimum required distance from a structure shall be 25 feet (7620 mm) where the pile size is 3 feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) or less in height. 


307.4.1 Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of a structure or combustible material unless the fire is contained in a barbecue pit. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition. 
307.4.2 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure or com­bustible material. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition. 
307.4.3 Portable outdoor fireplaces. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the manufac­turer's instructions and shall not be operated within 15 feet (3048 mm) of a structure or combustible material. 
Exception: Portable outdoor fireplaces used at one­and two-family dwellings. 

307.5 Attendance. Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires and use of portable outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one por­table fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a min­imum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-extinguishing 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water tluck, shall be available for immediate utilization. 
SECTION 308 
OPEN FLAMES 


308.1 General. Open flame, fire and burning on all premises shall be in accordance with Sections 308.1.1 through 308.4.1 and with other applicable sections of this code. 
308.1.1 Where prohibited. A person shall not take or uti­lize an open flame or light in a structure, vessel, boat or other place where highly flammable, combustible or explosive material is utilized or stored. Lighting appli­ances shall be well-secured in a glass globe and wire mesh cage or a similar approved device. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.25(a) and (b)] Open Flame Devices. 
(a) Open flame devices shall be prohibited in every Group A, E, I, R-2.I, R-3.I and R-4 Occupancy. 
Exceptions: 
(I) 
Fuel burning elements ofapproved appliances shall not be considered as open flame devices. 

(2) 
Upon approval ofthe enforcing agency, open flame devices may be used under the following conditions. 

(A) 
When necessary for ceremonial or theatrical purposes under such restrictions as may be deemed necessary to avoid danger ofignition ofcombustible materials or injury to occupants. 

(B) 
In approved and stable candle holders on indi­vidual tables ofdining establishments. 

(b) 
Under no circumstances shall hand held open flame devices such as exposed candles be permitted for any pur­pose in any occupancy within the scope of California Code ofRegulations, Title I9, Division I regulations. 


308.1.2 Throwing or placing sources of ignition. No person shall throw or place, or cause to be thrown or placed, a lighted match, cigar, cigarette, matches, or other flaming or glowing substance or object on any surface or article where it can cause an unwanted fire. 
308.1.3 Torches for removing paint. Persons utilizing a torch or other flame-producing device for removing paint from a structure shall provide a minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 and with a minimum 4-A rating, two portable fire extinguishers, each with a minimum 2-A rating, or a water hose connected to the water supply on the premises where such burning is done. The person doing the burning shall remain on the premises 1 hour after the torch or flame-producing device is utilized. 
308.1.4 Open-flame cooking devices. Charcoal burners and other open-flame cooking devices shall not be oper­ated on combustible balconies or within 10 feet (3048 mm) of combustible construction. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	One-and two-family dwellings. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	
Where buildings, balconies and decks are pro­tected by an automatic sprinkler system. 

3. 	
LP-gas cooking devices having LP-gas container with a water capacity not greater than 21pounds


/2 
[nominal1 pound (0.454 kg) LP-gas capacity]. 

308.1.5 Location near combustibles. Open flames such as from candles, lanterns, kerosene heaters and gas-fired heaters shall not be located on or near decorative material or similar combustible materials. 
308.1.6 Open-flame devices. Torches and other devices, machines or processes liable to start or cause fire shall not be operated or used in or upon wildfire risk areas, except by a permit in accordance with Section 105.6 secured from the fire code official. 
Exception: Use within inhabited premises or desig­nated campsites which are a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from grass-, grain-, brush-or forest-covered areas. 
308.1.6.1 Signals and markers. Flame-employing devices, such as lanterns or kerosene road flares, shall not be operated or used as a signal or marker in or upon wildfire risk areas. 
Exception: The proper use of fusees at the scenes of emergencies or as required by standard railroad operating procedures. 
308.1.6.2 Portable fueled open-flame devices. Porta­ble open-flame devices fueled by flammable or com­bustible gases or liquids shall be enclosed or installed in such a manner as to prevent the flame from contact­ing combustible material. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
LP-gas-fueled devices used for sweating pipe joints or removing paint in accordance with Chapter 61. 

2. 	
Cutting and welding operations in accordance with Chapter 35. 

3. 	
Torches or flame-producing devices in accor­dance with Section 308.4. 

4. 	
Candles and open-flame decorative devices in accordance with Section 308.3. 



308.1.7 Religious ceremonies. When, in the opinion of the fire code official, adequate safeguards have been taken, participants in religious ceremonies are allowed to carry hand-held candles. Hand-held candles shall not be passed from one person to another while lighted. 
308.1.7.1 Aisles and exits. Candles shall be prohibited in areas where occupants stand, or in an aisle or exit. 
308.1.8 Flaming food and beverage preparation. The preparation of flaming foods or beverages in places ?f assembly and drinking or dining establishments shall be m accordance with Sections 308.1.8.1 through 308.1.8.5. 
308.1.8.1 Dispensing. Flammable or combustible liq­uids used in the preparation of flaming foods or bever­ages shall be dispensed from one of the following: 
1. 	
A 1-ounce (29.6 ml) container; or 

2. 	
A container not exceeding 1-quart (946.5 ml) capacity with a controlled pouring device that will limit the flow to a 1-ounce (29.6 ml) serving. 


308.1.8.2 Containers not in use. Containers shall be secured to prevent spillage when not in use. 
308.1.8.3 Serving of flaming food. The serving of flaming foods or beverages shall be done in a safe man­ner and shall not create high flames. The pouring, ladling or spooning of liquids is restricted to a maxi­mum height of 8 inches (203 mm) above the receiving receptacle. 
308.1.8.4 Location. Flaming foods or beverages shall be prepared only in the immediate vicinity of the table being serviced. They shall not be transported or carried while burning. 
308.1.8.5 Fire protection. The person preparing the flaming foods or beverages shall have a wet cloth towel immediately available for use in smothering the flames in the event of an emergency. 
308.2 Permits required. Permits shall be obtained from the fire code official in accordance with Section 105.6 prior to engaging in the following activities involving open flame, fire and burning: 
1. 	
Use of a torch or flame-producing device to remove paint from a structure. 

2. 	
Use of open flame, fire or burning in connection with Group A or E occupancies. 

3. 	
Use or operation of torches and other devices, machines or processes liable to start or cause fire in or upon wild­fire risk areas. 


308.3 Group A occupancies. Open-flame devices shall not be used in a Group A occupancy. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Open-flame devices are allowed to be used in the following situations, provided approved precautions are taken to prevent ignition of a combustible mate­rial or injury to occupants: 
1.1. Where necessary for ceremonial or religious purposes in accordance with Section 308.1.7. 
1.2. On stages and platforms as a necessary part of a performance in accordance with Section 
308.3.2. 

1.3. 
Where candles 	on tables are securely sup­ported on substantial noncombustible bases and the candle flames are protected. 


2. 	
Heat-producing equipment complying with Chapter 6 and the California Mechanical Code. 


3. 	Gas lights are allowed to be used provided adequate precautions satisfactory to the fire code official are taken to prevent ignition of combustible materials. 
308.3.1 Open-flame decorative devices. Open-flame decorative devices shall comply with all of the following restrictions: 
1. 	
Class I and Class II liquids and LP-gas shall not be used. 

2. 	
Liquid-or solid-fueled lighting devices containing more than 8 ounces (237 ml) of fuel must self­extinguish and not leak fuel at a rate of more than 


0.25 teaspoon per minute (1.26 ml per minute) if tipped over. 
3. 	
The device or holder shall be constructed to pre­vent the spillage of liquid fuel or wax at the rate of more than 0.25 teaspoon per minute (1.26 ml per minute) when the device or holder is not in an upright position. 

4. 	
The device or holder shall be designed so that it will return to the upright position after being tilted to an angle of 45 degrees from vertical. 


Exception: Devices that self-extinguish if tipped over and do not spill fuel or wax at the rate of more than 0.25 teaspoon per minute 
(1.26 ml per minute) if tipped over. 
5. 	
The flame shall be enclosed except where openings on the side are not more than 0.375-inch (9.5 mm) diameter or where openings are on the top and the distance to the top is such that a piece of tissue paper placed on the top will not ignite in 10 sec­onds. 

6. 	
Chimneys shall be made of noncombustible mate­rials and securely attached to the open-flame device. 


Exception: A chimney is not required to be 
attached to any open-flame device that will 
self-extinguish if the device is tipped over. 
7. 	
Fuel canisters shall be safely sealed for storage. 

8. 	
Storage and handling of combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Chapter 57. 

9. 	
Shades, where used, shall be made of noncombus­tible materials and securely attached to the open­flame device holder or chimney. 

10. 	
Candelabras with flame-lighted candles shall be securely fastened in place to prevent overturning, and shall be located away from occupants using the area and away from possible contact with drapes, curtains or other combustibles. 


308.3.2 Theatrical performances. Where approved, open-flame devices used in conjunction with theatrical performances are allowed to be used when adequate safety precautions have been taken in accordance with NFP A 
160. 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

308.4 Group R occupancies. Open flame, fire and burning in Group R occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 308.1 through 308.1.6.2 and Section 308.4.1. 
308.4.1 Group R-2 dormitories. Candles, incense and similar open-flame-producing items shall not be allowed in sleeping units in Group R-2 dormitory occupancies. 
308.5 Group I, R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4 occupancies or any Licensed Care Facility. A person shall not utilize or allow to be utilized, an open flame in Group/, R-2./, R-3.1, R-4 occu­pancies or any Licensed Care Facilities. 
SECTION 309 POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT 
309.1 General. Powered industrial trucks and similar equip­ment including, but not limited to, floor scrubbers and floor buffers, shall be operated and maintained in accordance with Sections 309.2 through 309.6. 
309.2 Battery chargers. Battery chargers shall be of an approved type. Combustible storage shall be kept a minimum of 3 feet (915 mm) from battery chargers. Battery charging shall not be conducted in areas accessible to the public. 
309.3 Ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided in an approved manner in battery-charging areas to prevent a dan­gerous accumulation of flammable gases. 
309.4 Fire extinguishers. Battery-charging areas shall be provided with a fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 having a minimum 4-A:20-B:C rating within 20 feet (6096 mm) of the battery charger. 
309.5 Refueling. Powered industrial trucks using liquid fuel, LP-gas or hydrogen shall be refueled outside of buildings or in areas specifically approved for that purpose. Fixed fuel­dispensing equipment and associated fueling operations shall be in accordance with Chapter 23. Other fuel-dispensing equipment and operations, including cylinder exchange for LP-gas-fueled vehicles, shall be in accordance with Chapter 57 for flammable and combustible liquids or Chapter 61 for LP-gas. 
309.6 Repairs. Repairs to fuel systems, electrical systems and repairs utilizing open flame or welding shall be done in approved locations outside of buildings or in areas specifi­cally approved for that purpose. 
SECTION 310 
SMOKING 


310.1 General. The smoking or carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or any other type of smoking paraphernalia or material is prohibited in the areas indicated in Sections 310.2 through 310.8. 
310.2 Prohibited areas. Smoking shall be prohibited where conditions are such as to make smoking a hazard, and in spaces where flammable or combustible materials are stored or handled. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §3.32(a) and (b)] Smoking. 
(a) 
Smoking shall not be permitted in any GroupE Occu­pancy as defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, except as provided in California Code ofRegu­lations, Title I9, Division I, subsection (b), below. 

(b) 
The governing board ofany school district maintaining a community college or high school may adopt rules and regulations permitting the smoking and possession of tobacco on the campus of a community college or high school or while under the authority ofschool personnel by pupils of the community college or high school; provided that such rules and regulations shall not permit students to smoke in any classroom or other enclosed facility which any student is required to occupy or which is customarily occupied by nonsmoking students. Areas designated for smoking shall be approved by the enforcing agency. 


NOTE: See Section 4890I of the Education Code relating to the smoking or possession oftobacco by pupils. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.32(d)] Smoking. 
(d) Smoking shall be prohibited in any patient room of a Group I, R-2.I, R-3.I or R-4 occupancy utilizing air­induced mattresses. "No Smoking -Open Flame" signs shall be installed as specified in NFPA 99B, Hypobaric Facilities, 2005 edition. 
310.3 "No Smoking" signs. The fire code official is autho­rized to order the posting of "No Smoking" signs in a con­spicuous location in each structure or location in which smoking is prohibited. The content, lettering, size, color and location of required "No Smoking" signs shall be approved. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.32(c)] Smoking. 
(c) Approved no smoking signs shall be posted on all stages and platforms of Group A occupancies. Smoking shall not be permitted on stages or platforms except in approved designated areas and as necessary for theatri­cal, opera or similar productions. 
310.4 Removal of signs prohibited. A posted "No Smoking" sign shall not be obscured, removed, defaced, mutilated or destroyed. 
310.5 Compliance with "No Smoking" signs. Smoking shall not be permitted nor shall a person smoke, throw or deposit any lighted or smoldering substance in any place where "No Smoking" signs are posted. 
310.6 Ash trays. Where smoking is permitted, suitable non­combustible ash trays or match receivers shall be provided on each table and at other appropriate locations. 
310.7 Burning objects. Lighted matches, cigarettes, cigars or other burning object shall not be discarded in such a manner that could cause ignition of other combustible material. 
310.8 Hazardous environmental conditions. When the fire code official determines that hazardous environmental condi­tions necessitate controlled use of smoking materials, the ignition or use of such materials in mountainous, brush-cov­ered or forest-covered areas or other designated areas is pro­hibited except in approved designated smoking areas. 
SECTION 311 
VACANT PREMISES 


311.1 General. Temporarily unoccupied buildings, struc­tures, premises or portions thereof, including tenant spaces, shall be safeguarded and maintained in accordance with Sec­tions 311.1.1 through 311.5.5. 
311.1.1 Abandoned premises. Buildings, structures and premises for which an owner cannot be identified or located by dispatch of a certificate of mailing to the last known or registered address, which persistently or repeat­edly become unprotected or unsecured, which have been occupied by unauthorized persons or for illegal purposes, or which present a danger of structural collapse or fire spread to adjacent properties shall be considered aban­doned, declared unsafe and abated by demolition or reha­bilitation in accordance with the International Property Maintenance Code and the California Building Code. 
311.1.2 Tenant spaces. Storage and lease plans required by this code shall be revised and updated to reflect tempo­rary or partial vacancies. 
311.2 Safeguarding vacant premises. Temporarily unoccu­pied buildings, structures, premises or portions thereof shall be secured and protected in accordance with Sections 311.2.1 through 311.2.3. 
311.2.1 Security. Exterior and interior openings accessi­ble to other tenants or unauthorized persons shall be boarded, locked, blocked or otherwise protected to prevent entry by unauthorized individuals. The fire code official is authorized to placard, post signs, erect barrier tape or take similar measures as necessary to secure public safety. 
311.2.2 Fire protection. Fire alarm, sprinkler and stand­pipe systems shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
When the premises have been cleared of all com­bustible materials and debris and, in the opinion of the fire code official, the type of construction, fire separation distance and security of the prem­ises do not create a fire hazard. 

2. 	
Where approved by the fire chief, buildings that will not be heated and where fire protection sys­tems will be exposed to freezing temperatures, fire alarm and sprinkler systems are permitted to be placed out of service and standpipes are per­mitted to be maintained as dry systems (without an automatic water supply), provided the build­ing has no contents or storage, and windows, doors and other openings are secured to prohibit entry by unauthorized persons. 


311.2.3 Fire separation. Fire-resistance-rated partitions, fire barriers and fire walls separating vacant tenant spaces from the remainder of the building shall be maintained. 
Openings, joints and penetrations in fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be protected in accordance with Chapter 
7. 

311.3 Removal of combustibles. Persons owning, or in charge or control of, a vacant building or portion thereof, shall remove therefrom all accumulations of combustible materials, flammable or combustible waste or rubbish and shall securely lock or otherwise secure doors, windows and other openings to prevent entry by unauthorized persons. The premises shall be maintained clear of waste or hazardous materials. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Buildings or portions of buildings undergoing addi­tions, alterations, repairs or change of occupancy in accordance with the California Building Code, where waste is controlled and removed as required by Section 304. 

2. 	
Seasonally occupied buildings. 



311.4 Removal of hazardous materials. Persons owning or having charge or control of a vacant building containing haz­ardous materials regulated by Chapter 50 shall comply with the facility closure requirements of Section 5001.6. 
311.5 Placards. Any vacant or abandoned buildings or struc­tures determined to be unsafe pursuant to Section 110 of this code relating to structural or interior hazards shall be marked as required by Sections 311.5.1 through 311.5.5. 
311.5.1 Placard location. Placards shall be applied on the front of the structure and be visible from the street. Addi­tional placards shall be applied to the side of each entrance to the structure and on penthouses. 
311.5.2 Placard size and color. Placards shall be 24 inches by 24 inches (610 mm by 610 mm) minimum in size with a red background, white reflective stripes and a white reflective border. The stripes and border shall have a 2-inch (51 mm) minimum stroke. 
311.5.3 Placard date. Placards shall bear the date of their application to the building and the date of the most recent inspection. 
311.5.4 Placard symbols. The design of the placards shall use the following symbols: 
1. 	
This symbol shall mean that the structure had normal structural conditions at the time of marking. 

2. 	
This symbol shall mean that structural or interior hazards exist and interior fire-fighting or rescue operations should be conducted with extreme cau­tion. 

3. 	
[2~ This symbol shall mean that structural or interior hazards exist to a degree that consideration should be given to limit fire fighting to exterior operations only, with entry only occurring for known life haz­ards. 

4. 	
Vacant marker hazard identification symbols: The following symbols shall be used to designate known hazards on the vacant building marker. They shall be placed directly above the symbol. 


GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
4.1. RIO-Roof open 
4.2. S/M-Stairs, steps and landing missing 
4.3. FIE-Avoid fire escapes 
4.4. HIP-Holes in floor 

311.5.5 Informational use. The use of these symbols shall be informational only and shall not in any way limit the discretion of the on-scene incident commander. 
SECTION 312 
VEHICLE IMPACT PROTECTION 


312.1 General. Vehicle impact protection required by this code shall be provided by posts that comply with Section 
312.2 or by other approved physical barriers that comply with Section 312.3. 
312.2 Posts. Guard posts shall comply with all of the follow­ing requirements: 
1. 	
Constructed of steel not less than 4 inches (102 mm) in diameter and concrete filled. 

2. 	
Spaced not more than 4 feet (1219 mm) between posts on center. 

3. 	
Set not less than 3 feet (914 mm) deep in a concrete footing of not less than a 15-inch (381 mm) diameter. 

4. 	
Set with the top of the posts not less than 3 feet (914 mm) above ground. 

5. 	
Located not less than 3 feet (914 mm) from the pro­tected object. 


312.3 Other barriers. Physical barriers shall be a minimum of 36 inches (914 mm) in height and shall resist a force of 12,000 pounds (53 375 N) applied 36 inches (914 mm) above the adjacent ground surface. 
SECTION 313 
FUELED EQUIPMENT 


313.1 General. Fueled equipment including, but not limited to, motorcycles, mopeds, lawn-care equipment, portable gen­erators and portable cooking equipment, shall not be stored, operated or repaired within a building. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Buildings or rooms constructed for such use in accordance with the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Where allowed by Section 314. 

3. 	
Storage of equipment utilized for maintenance pur­poses is allowed in approved locations when the aggregate fuel capacity of the stored equipment does not exceed 10 gallons (38 L) and the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 


903.3.1.1. 

313.1.1 Removal. The fire code official is authorized to require removal of fueled equipment from locations where the presence of such equipment is determined by the fire code official to be hazardous. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
313.2 Group R occupancies. Vehicles powered by flamma­ble liquids, Class II combustible liquids or compressed flam­mable gases shall not be stored within the living space of Group R buildings. 
SECTION 314 
INDOOR DISPLAYS 


314.1 General. Indoor displays constructed within any occu­pancy shall comply with Sections 314.2 through 314.4. 
314.2 Fixtures and displays. Fixtures and displays of goods for sale to the public shall be arranged so as to maintain free, immediate and unobstructed access to exits as required by Chapter 10. 
314.3 Highly combustible goods. The display of highly combustible goods, including but not limited to fireworks, flammable or combustible liquids, liquefied flammable gases, oxidizing materials, pyroxylin plastics and agricultural goods, in main exit access aisles, corridors, covered and open malls, or within 5 feet (1524 mm) of entrances to exits and exterior exit doors is prohibited when a fire involving such goods would rapidly prevent or obstruct egress. 
314.4 Vehicles. Liquid-or gas-fueled vehicles, boats or other motorcraft shall not be located indoors except as follows: 
l. 	Batteries are disconnected. 
2. 	
Fuel in fuel tanks does not exceed one-quarter tank or 5 gallons (19 L) (whichever is least). 

3. 	
Fuel tanks and fill openings are closed and sealed to prevent tampering. 

4. 	
Vehicles, boats or other motorcraft equipment are not fueled or defueled within the building. 


SECTION 315 
GENERAL STORAGE 


315.1 General. Storage shall be in accordance with Sections 
315.2 through 315.4. 
315.2 Permit required. A permit for miscellaneous combus­tible storage shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. 
315.3 Storage in buildings. Storage of materials in buildings shall be orderly and stacks shall be stable. Storage of combus­tible materials shall be separated from heaters or heating devices by distance or shielding so that ignition cannot occur. 
315.3.1 Ceiling clearance. Storage shall be maintained 2 feet (610 mm) or more below the ceiling in nonsprinklered areas of buildings or a minimum of 18 inches ( 457 mm) below sprinkler head deflectors in sprinklered areas of buildings. 
315.3.2 Means of egress. Combustible materials shall not be stored in exits or enclosures for stairways and ramps. 
315.3.3 Equipment rooms. Combustible material shall not be stored in boiler rooms, mechanical rooms or electri­cal equipment rooms. 
315.3.4 Attic, under-floor and concealed spaces. Attic, under-floor and concealed spaces used for storage of com­bustible materials shall be protected on the storage side as required for 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. Openings shall be protected by assemblies that are self­closing and are of noncombustible construction or solid wood core not less than 1\inches ( 44.5 mm) in thickness. Storage shall not be placed on exposed joists. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Areas protected by approved automatic sprinkler systems. 

2. 	
Group R-3 and Group U occupancies. 


315.4 Outside storage. Outside storage of combustible mate­rials shall not be located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of a lot line. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The separation distance is allowed to be reduced to 3 feet (914 mm) for storage not exceeding 6 feet (1829 mm) in height. 

2. 	
The separation distance is allowed to be reduced when the fire code official determines that no hazard to the adjoining property exists. 


315.4.1 Storage beneath overhead projections from buildings. Where buildings are protected by automatic sprinklers, the outdoor storage, display and handling of combustible materials under eaves, canopies or other pro­jections or overhangs is prohibited except where automatic sprinklers are installed under such eaves, canopies or other projections or overhangs. 
315.4.2 Height. Storage in the open shall not exceed 20 feet (6096 mm) in height. 
315.5 Storage underneath high-voltage transmission lines. Storage located underneath high-voltage transmission lines shall be in accordance with Section 316.6.2. 
SECTION 316 
HAZARDS TO FIRE FIGHTERS 


316.1 Trapdoors to be closed. Trapdoors and scuttle covers, other than those that are within a dwelling unit or automati­cally operated, shall be kept closed at all times except when in use. 
316.2 Shaftway markings. Vertical shafts shall be identified as required by this section. 
316.2.1 Exterior access to shaftways. Outside openings accessible to the fire department and which open directly on a hoistway or shaftway communicating between two or more floors in a building shall be plainly marked with the word SHAFTWAY in red letters at least 6 inches (152 mm) high on a white background. Such warning signs shall be placed so as to be readily discernible from the out­side of the building. 
316.2.2 Interior access to shaftways. Door or window openings to a hoistway or shaftway from the interior of the building shall be plainly marked with the word SHAFT­WAY in red letters at least 6 inches (152 mm) high on a 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
white background. Such warning signs shall be placed so as to be readily discernible. 
Exception: Marking shall not be required on shaftway openings which are readily discernible as openings onto a shaftway by the construction or arrangement. 

316.3 Pitfalls. The intentional design or alteration of build­ings to disable, injure, maim or kill intruders is prohibited. No person shall install and use firearms, sharp or pointed objects, razor wire, explosives, flammable or combustible liquid con­tainers, or dispensers containing highly toxic, toxic, irritant or other hazardous materials in a manner which may passively or actively disable, injure, maim or kill a fire fighter who forcibly enters a building for the purpose of controlling or extinguishing a fire, rescuing trapped occupants or rendering other emergency assistance. 
316.4 Obstructions on roofs. Wires, cables, ropes, antennas, or other suspended obstructions installed on the roof of a building having a roof slope of less than 30 degrees (0.52 rad) shall not create an obstruction that is less than 7 feet (2133 mm) high above the surface of the roof. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Such obstruction shall be permitted where the wire, cable, rope, antenna or suspended obstruction is encased in a white, 2-inch (51 mm) minimum diam­eter plastic pipe or an approved equivalent. 

2. 	
Such obstruction shall be permitted where there is a solid obstruction below such that accidentally walk­ing into the wire, cable, rope, antenna or suspended obstruction is not possible. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.0S(b)] Fire Department Access and Egress. (Roofs). 
(b) Roofs. No person shall install or maintain any security barrier such as barbed wire fencing, razor wire fencing, chain link fencing, or any other fencing material, cable, aerial, antenna, or other obstruction on the roof of any commercial establishment in such a manner as to obstruct or render egress or access hazardous in the event offire or other emergency. 
Exception: Guy wire, rods and aerial antenna masts may be attached to a roof structure having a slope of less than 30 degrees provided there is full clearance of seven feet or more between the roof and said obstruc­tion. Guy wire or rods required to support aerial or antenna masts may be attached to a roof structure a lateral distance from the mast not in excess ofone-sixth the height ofthe mast. 

316.5 Security device. Any security device or system that emits any medium that could obscure a means of egress in any building, structure or premise shall be prohibited. 
316.6 Structures and outdoor storage underneath high­voltage transmission lines. Structures and outdoor storage underneath high-voltage transmission lines shall comply with Sections 316.6.1 and 316.6.2, respectively. 
316.6.1 Structures. Structures shall not be constructed within the utility easement beneath high-voltage transmis­sion lines. 
Exception: Restrooms and unoccupied telecommuni­cation structures of noncombustible construction less than 15 feet in height. 
316.6.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage within the util­ity easement underneath high-voltage transmission lines shall be limited to noncombustible material. Storage of hazardous materials including, but not limited to, flamma­ble and combustible liquids is prohibited. 
Exception: Combustible storage, including vehicles and fuel storage for backup power equipment serving public utility equipment, is allowed, provided that a plan indicating the storage configuration is submitted and approved. 

SECTION 317 
ROOFTOP GARDENS AND LANDSCAPED ROOFS 

317.1 General. Rooftop gardens and landscaped roofs shall be installed and maintained in accordance with Sections 
317.2 through 317.5 and Sections 1505.0 and 1507.16 of the 
California Building Code. 
317.2 Rooftop garden or landscaped roof size. Rooftop garden or landscaped roof areas shall not exceed 15,625 square feet (1,450 m2) in size for any single area with a maxi­mum dimension of 125 feet (39m) in length or width. A min­imum 6-foot-wide (1.8 m) clearance consisting of a Class A­rated roof system complying with ASTM E 108 or UL 790 shall be provided between adjacent rooftop gardens or land­scaped roof areas. 
317.3 Rooftop structure and equipment clearance. For all vegetated roofing systems abutting combustible vertical sur­faces, a Class A-rated roof system complying with ASTM E 108 or UL 790 shall be achieved for a minimum 6-foot-wide 
(1.8 m) continuous border placed around rooftop structures and all rooftop equipment including, but not limited to, mechanical and machine rooms, penthouses, skylights, roof vents, solar panels, antenna supports, and building service equipment. 
317.4 Vegetation. Vegetation shall be maintained in accor­dance with Sections 317.4.1 and 317.4.2. 
317.4.1 Irrigation. Supplemental irrigation shall be pro­vided to maintain levels of hydration necessary to keep green roof plants alive and to keep dry foliage to a mini­mum. 
317.4.2 Dead foliage. Excess biomass, such as overgrown vegetation, leaves and other dead and decaying material, shall be removed at regular intervals not less than two times per year. 
317.4.3 Maintenance plan. The fire code official is authorized to require a maintenance plan for vegetation placed on roofs due to the size of a roof garden, materials 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
used, or when a fire hazard exists to the building or expo­sures due to the lack of maintenance. 
317.5 Maintenance equipment. Fueled equipment stored on roofs and used for the care and maintenance of vegetation on roofs shall be stored in accordance with Section 313. 
SECTION 318 
LAUNDRY CARTS 


318.1 Laundry carts with a capacity of 1 cubic yard or more. Laundry carts with an individual capacity of 1 cubic yard [200 gallons (0.76 m3)] or more, used in laundries within Group B, F-1, I and R-1 occupancies shall be constructed of noncombustible materials or materials having a peak rate of heat release not exceeding 300 kW/m2 at a flux of 50 kW/m2 when tested in a horizontal orientation in accordance with ASTME 1354. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Laundry carts in areas protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

2. 	
Laundry carts in coin-operated laundries. 


CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 4-EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

...

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISion 1 provlSlons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 4 
EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS 
SECTION 401 
GENERAL 


401.1 Scope. Reporting of emergencies, coordination with emergency response forces, emergency plans and procedures for managing or responding to emergencies shall comply with the provisions of this section. 
Exception: Firms that have approved on-premises fire­
fighting organizations and that are in compliance with 
approved procedures for fire reporting. 

401.2 Approval. Where required by this code, fire safety plans, emergency procedures and employee training pro­grams shall be approved by the fire code official. 
401.3 Emergency responder notification. Notification of emergency responders shall be in accordance with Sections 
401.3.1 through 401.3.3. 
401.3.1 Fire events. In the event an unwanted fire occurs on a property, the owner or occupant shall immediately report such condition to the fire department. 
401.3.2 Alarm activations. Upon activation of a fire alarm signal, employees or staff shall immediately notify the fire department. 
401.3.3 Delayed notification. A person shall not, by ver­bal or written directive, require any delay in the reporting of a fire to the fire department. 

401.3.4 Group E fire alarm initiation. Every person and public officer managing, controlling, or in charge of any public, private, or parochial school shall cause the fire alarm signal to be sounded upon the discovery offire. 
401.4 Required plan implementation. In the event an unwanted fire is detected in a building or a fire alarm acti­vates, the emergency plan shall be implemented. 
401.5 Making false report. A person shall not give, signal or transmit a false alarm. 
401.6 Emergency evacuation drills. The sounding of a fire alarm signal and the carrying out of an emergency evacuation drill in accordance with the provisions of Section 405 shall be allowed. 
401.7 Unplanned evacuation. Evacuations made necessary by the unplanned activation of a fire alarm system or by any other emergency shall not be substituted for a required evacu­ation drill. 
401.8 Interference with fire department operations. It shall be unlawful to intetfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire to interfere with, obstruct or restrict the mobility of or block the path of travel of a fire department emergency vehicle in any way, or to interfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire to interfere with, obstruct or hamper any fire department operation. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
401.9 Evacuation of buildings. Upon notification of fire, conduct ofany fire drill, upon activation ofthe fire alarm, or upon orders of the fire authority having jurisdiction, build­ings or structures within the scope of these regulations shall be immediately evacuated or occupants shall be relocated in accordance with established plans. 
SECTION 402 
DEFINITIONS 


402.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL. 
LOCKDOWN. 
SECTION 403 
PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGES AND EVENTS 

403.1 Fire watch personnel. When, in the opinion of the fire code official, it is essential for public safety in a place of assembly or any other place where people congregate, because of the number of persons, or the nature of the perfor­mance, exhibition, display, contest or activity, the owner, agent or lessee shall provide one or more fire watch person­nel, as required and approved, to remain on duty during the times such places are open to the public, or when such activ­ity is being conducted. 
403.1.1 Duties. Fire watch personnel shall keep diligent watch for fires, obstructions to means of egress and other hazards during the time such place is open to the public or such activity is being conducted and take prompt measures for remediation of hazards, extinguishment of fires that occur and assist in the evacuation of the public from the structures. 
403.2 Public safety plan. In other than Group A or E occu­pancies, where the fire code official determines that an indoor or outdoor gathering of persons has an adverse impact on public safety through diminished access to buildings, struc­tures, fire hydrants and fire apparatus access roads or where such gatherings adversely affect public safety services of any kind, the fire code official shall have the authority to order the development of, or prescribe a plan for, the provision of an approved level of public safety. 
403.2.1 Contents. The public safety plan, where required by Section 403.2, shall address such items as emergency vehicle ingress and egress, fire protection, emergency egress or escape routes, emergency medical services, pub­lic assembly areas and the directing of both attendees and vehicles (including the parking of vehicles), vendor and food concession distribution, and the need for the presence of law enforcement, and fire and emergency medical ser­vices personnel at the event. 
403.3 Crowd managers. Trained crowd managers shall be provided for facilities or events where more than 1,000 per­sons congregate. The minimum number of crowd managers shall be established at a ratio of one crowd manager to every 250 persons. Where approved by the fire code official, the ratio of crowd managers shall be permitted to be reduced where the facility is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system or based upon the nature of the event. 
SECTION 404 
FIRE SAFETY AND EVACUATION PLANS 

404.1 General. Fire safety, evacuation and lockdown plans and associated drills shall comply with the requirements of Sections 404.2 through 404.5.1. 
404.2 Where required. An approved fire safety and evacua­tion plan shall be prepared and maintained for the following occupancies and buildings. 
1. 	
Group A, other than Group A occupancies used exclu­sively for purposes of religious worship that have an occupant load less than 2,000. 

2. 	
Group B buildings having an occupant load of 500 or more persons or more than 100 persons above or below the lowest level of exit discharge. 

3. 	
Group E. 

4. 	
Group F buildings having an occupant load of 500 or more persons or more than 100 persons above or below the lowest level of exit discharge. 

5. 	
Group H. 

6. 	
Group I. 

7. 	
Group R-1. 

8. 	
Group R-2 college and university buildings. 

9. 	
Group R-4. 

10. 	
High-rise buildings. 

11. 	
Group M buildings having an occupant load of 500 or more persons or more than 100 persons above or below the lowest level of exit discharge. 

12. 	
Covered malls exceeding 50,000 square feet (4645 m2) in aggregate floor area. 

13. 	
Open mall buildings exceeding 50,000 square feet (4645 m2) in aggregate area within perimeter line. 

14. 	
Underground buildings. 

15. 	
Buildings with an atrium and having an occupancy in Group A, E or M. 


404.3 Contents. Fire safety and evacuation plan contents shall be in accordance with Sections 404.3.1 and 404.3.2. 
404.3.1 Fire evacuation plans. Fire evacuation plans shall include the following: 
1. 	
Emergency egress or escape routes and whether evacuation of the building is to be complete or, where approved, by selected floors or areas only. 

2. 	
Procedures for employees who must remain to oper­ate critical equipment before evacuating. 

3. 	
Procedures for assisted rescue for persons unable to use the general means of egress unassisted. 

4. 	
Procedures for accounting for employees and occu­pants after evacuation has been completed. 


5. 	
Identification and assignment of personnel responsi­ble for rescue or emergency medical aid. 

6. 	
The preferred and any alternative means of notifying occupants of a fire or emergency. 

7. 
The preferred and any alternative means of reporting fires and other emergencies to the fire department or designated emergency response organization. 

8. 	
Identification and assignment of personnel who can be contacted for further information or explanation of duties under the plan. 

9. 	
A description of the emergency voice/alarm com­munication system alert tone and preprogrammed voice messages, where provided. 


404.3.2 Fire safety plans. Fire safety plans shall include the following: 
1. 	
The procedure for reporting a fire or other emer­gency. 

2. 	
The life safety strategy and procedures for notifying, relocating or evacuating occupants, including occu­pants who need assistance. 

3. 	
Site plans indicating the following: 3.1.The occupancy assembly point. 3.2.The locations of fire hydrants. 3.3.The normal routes of fire department vehicle 

access. 

4. 	
Floor plans identifying the locations of the follow­ing: 


4.1. Exits. 
4.2. Primary evacuation routes. 
4.3. Secondary evacuation t;outes. 
4.4. Accessible egress routes. 
4.5. Areas of refuge. 
4.6. Exterior areas for assisted rescue. 
4.7. Manual fire alarm boxes. 
4.8. Portable fire extinguishers. 
4.9. Occupant-use hose stations. 
4.10. 
Fire alarm annunciators and controls. 

5. 	
A list of major fire hazards associated with the nor­mal use and occupancy of the premises, including maintenance and housekeeping procedures. 

6. 	
Identification and assignment of personnel responsi­ble for maintenance of systems and equipment installed to prevent or control fires. 

7. 	
Identification and assignment of personnel responsi­ble for maintenance, housekeeping and controlling fuel hazard sources. 


404.3.3 Lockdown plans. Where facilities develop a lock­down plan, the lockdown plan shall be in accordance with Sections 404.3.3.1 through 404.3.3.3. 
EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS 
404.3.3.1 Lockdown plan contents. Lockdown plans shall be approved by the fire code official and shall include the following: 
1. 	
Initiation. The plan shall include instructions for reporting an emergency that requires a lockdown. 

2. 	
Accountability. The plan shall include account­ability procedures for staff to report the presence or absence of occupants. 

3. 	
Recall. The plan shall include a prearranged sig­nal for returning to normal activity. 

4. 	
Communication and coordination. The plan shall include an approved means of two-way commu­nication between a central location and each secured area. 


404.3.3.2 Training frequency. The training frequency shall be included in the lockdown plan. The lockdown drills shall not substitute for any of the fire and evacua­tion drills required in Section 405.2. 
404.3.3.3 Lockdown notification. The method of noti­fying building occupants of a lockdown shall be included in the plan. The method of notification shall be separate and distinct from the fire alarm signal. 

404.4 Maintenance. Fire safety and evacuation plans shall be reviewed or updated annually or as necessitated by changes in staff assignments, occupancy or the physical arrangement of the building. 
404.5 Availability. Fire safety and evacuation plans shall be available in the workplace for reference and review by employees, and copies shall be furnished to the fire code offi­cial for review upon request. 
404.5.1 Distribution. The fire safety and evacuation plans shall be distributed to the tenants and building service employees by the owner or owner's agent. Tenants shall distribute to their employees applicable parts of the fire safety plan affecting the employees' actions in the event of a fire or other emergency. 
404.6 College and university pre-fire planning. The Chan­cellor, President, or his designated representative, shall, in cooperation with the enforcing agency, propose procedures to be followed in case offire or other emergency in accor­dance with the provisions ofSection 408.3.1.1. 
404.7 Office buildings. All office buildings two or more sto­ries in height, except high-rise buildings as defined by Health and Safety Code Section 13210, shall comply with this sec­tion. 
404.7.1 Owner( s) or operator( s) shall employ either one of the following methods ofproviding emergency procedures and information to the building occupants: 
1. 	Emergency procedures information published in the form of a leaflet, brochure, or pamphlet shall be available to all persons entering the building. Emer­gency procedures information shall be located immediately inside all entrances to the building, as determined by the authority having jurisdiction. Locations shall be clearly marked. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	A floor plan providing emergency procedures infor­mation shall be posted at every stairway landing, at every elevator landing, and immediately inside all public entrances to the building. The information shall be posted so that it describes the represented floor level and can be easily seen immediately upon entering the floor level of the building. Emergency procedures information shall be printed with a mini­mum of 3-inch high nondecorative lettering pro­
/ 16
viding a shwp contrast to the background. 

404.7.1.2 Emergency procedures information shall provide all ambulatory, nonambulatory, and the physi­cally disabled instructions to be followed in the event of an emergency. Emergency procedures information shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1. 	
Location ofexits. 

2. 	
Location of fire alarm initiating stations, if required. 

3. 	
What the fire alarm, ifrequired, sounds and looks like (audible and visual warning devices). 

4. 	
Fire department emergency telephone number 


911. 
5. 	The prohibition of elevator use during emergen­cies, ifany. 

404.7.2 Hotels, motels and lodging houses. Every guest­room available for rental in a hotel, motel, or lodging house shall have clearly visible emergency procedures information printed on a floor plan representative of the floor level and posted on the interior of each entrance door or immediately adjacent to such door. The owner/ operator ofa hotel, motel, or lodging house may, in lieu of posting emergency procedures information in each guest­room, provide such information through the use ofleaflets, brochures, pamphlets, videotapes, or any other method as approved by the authority having jurisdiction. Oral com­munication in itself does not fulfill the intent of this sec­tion. However, oral communication can be incorporated as a part ofthe transfer ofemergency procedures informa­tion. When emergency procedures information signage is posted on the interior of the guestroom entrance door, the bottom of the information shall not be located more than 4-feet above the floor level. Visually impaired persons shall receive instructions of a type they will understand, for example: taping ofinstructions, instructions in Braille, or other appropriate methods. 
404.7.2.1 Each method of providing information shall include, but not be limited to that described in Section 
404.7.1.2. 
404.7.2.2 Hotels, motels, and lodging houses shall maintain at the registration desk a list noting the guest­rooms assigned to guests with disabilities when such guests have indicated that they have special emergency evacuation requirements. The innkeeper shall, at the innkeeper's option, do one ofthe following: 
1. 	Provide a place on the registration form for phys­ically disabled guests who have such require­ments to so identify themselves. 

2. 	
Provide a notice on the room key jacket advising guests with disabilities who have special emer­gency evacuation requirements to so notify the front desk. 

3. 	
Utilize such other means for allowing such guests with disabilities to so identify themselves as may be approved by the authority having jurisdiction. 


404.7.3 Stairways. Hotels, motels, lodging houses, high­rise office buildings, and Group 1, Division 1 and 2 occu­pancies as defined in the California Building Code (except honor farnts and conservation camps) shall comply with this section. 
404.7.3.1 Emergency procedures information printed on a floor plan shall be posted at every stairway land­ing, at every elevator landing, and immediately inside all public entrances to the building. The information shall be representative of the floor level and be posted so that the bottom edge of such information is not located more than 4-feet above the floor, where it can be easily identified. Emergency procedures information shall be printed with a minimum of3116-inch nondecora­tive lettering providing a sharp contrast to the back­ground. 
404.7.3.1.2 Emergency procedures information shall include, but not be limited to, that described in Section 404.7.1.2. 
404.7.4 Emergency Director. Owner(s) and operator(s) of hotels, motels, lodging houses, high-rise office buildings, and Group I, Division 1 and 2 occupancies as defined in the California Building Code (except honor farms and conservation camps) shall appoint a Fire Safety Director, who shall: 
1. 	
Report to owner( s) or operator( s ). 

2. 	
Coordinate fire safety activities of the facility with the authority having jurisdiction. 

3. 	
Conduct, or cause to be conducted, all training as described in Sections 404.7.5 through 404.7.5.1.3 for all building employees and maintain records of dates, subjects, and attendance ofeach training ses­sion. 

4. 	
Develop and maintain a written facility emergency plan acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction. Upon request, the facility emergency plan shall be made physically available at the respective facility to the authority having jurisdiction. Facility emer­gency plans shall include, but not be limited to the following: 


4.1. Fire department emergency telephone number 
911. 

4.2. Other emergency response telephone numbers. 
4.3. Evacuation or relocation plan for the building occupants. 
4.4. Duties 	of the Fire Safety Director and other designated emergency personnel. 
EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS 
4.5. Building employee responsibilities 	in case of emergency, including individual assignment and reporting responsibilities. 
4. 
6. Procedures to identify and assist the non­ambulatory and physically disabled. 

5. 	
Assure that the requirements of Section 404. 7.4, item 4, subsection 4.6, procedures to identify and assist the nonambulatory and physically disabled are accomplished as follows: 


5.1. Hotels, 	motels, and lodging houses shall comply with subsection (b)( 3 ); 
5.2. 	Owner(s) or operator(s) of high-rise office buildings shall maintain a list of all permanent building tenants who have disabilities. Building owner( s) or operator(s) shall be notified in wntmg by those who have disabilities. Information provided in the list shall include any special emergency evacuation needs and permanent work location of such physically disabled persons. The list shall be located in the building manager's office; 
5.3 	Group 1, Division 1 and 2 occupancies as defined in the California Building Code (except honor farms and conservation camps) shall comply with normal hospital policies of assisting patients and guests during an emergency evacuation. 
404.7.5 Training. Hotels, motels, lodging houses, and high-rise office buildings shall conduct annually, emer­gency procedures training for all building employees. Group 1, Division 1 and 2 occupancies as defined in the California Building Code (except honor farms and conser­vation camps) shall conduct quarterly fire emergency training for all building employees. 
404.7.5.1 Fire Safety Directors and their designated emergency personnel shall receive training in the iden­tification and use offacility fire safety equipment, com­munication procedures, people movement procedures, fire prevention practices, and their duties outlined in their respective emergency plan. The training curricu­lum shall be approved by, and made available to the authority having jurisdiction. 
404.7.5.2. All building employees shall receive training covering the identification and use offacility fire safety equipment, fire prevention practices, and appropriate procedures to follow in the event ofa fire. 
404.7.5.3. Actual evacuation or relocation of building occupants pursuant to procedures contained in the emergency plan shall be conducted at least annually for all building employees. Appropriate records, including dates, floors or building involved, and per­sons conducting evacuation or relocation procedures shall be maintained and made immediately available to the authority having jurisdiction upon their request. The authority having jurisdiction shall be notified not less than 48 hours in advance of such planned evacua­tion or relocation. 
Exception: In hotels, motels, lodging houses, and Group I, Division 1 and 2 occupancies as defined in the California Building Code, guests and patients are not required to participate in evacu­ation or relocation of the building. In hotels, motels, lodging houses, Group 1, Division 1 and 2 occupancies as defined in the California Building Code, and high-rise office buildings, on-duty per­sonnel who have security or maintenance related responsibilities, and designated management personnel approved by the fire authority having jurisdiction shall not be required to participate in any drill but, they shall provide an alternate method approved by the authority having juris­diction to measure their knowledge of their respective duties pursuant to the emergency plan. 

404.7.6 Emergency procedures signage posted prior to the effective date ofthese regulations may be continued in use until one year after such effective date of these regula­tions. 
SECTION 405 
EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILLS 


405.1 General. Emergency evacuation drills complying with the provisions of this section shall be conducted at least annu­ally in the occupancies listed in Section 404.2 or when required by the fire code official. Drills shall be designed in cooperation with the local authorities. 
405.2 Frequency. Required emergency evacuation drills shall be held at the intervals specified in Table 405.2 or more frequently where necessary to familiarize all occupants with the drill procedure. 
405.3 Leadership. Responsibility for the planning and con­duct of drills shall be assigned to competent persons desig­nated to exercise leadership. 
405.4 Time. Drills shall be held at unexpected times and under varying conditions to simulate the unusual conditions that occur in case of fire. 
405.5 Record keeping. Records shall be maintained of required emergency evacuation drills and include the follow­ing information: 
1. 	
Identity of the person conducting the drill. 

2. 	
Date and time of the drill. 

3. 	
Notification method used. 

4. 	
Staff members on duty and participating. 

5. 	
Number of occupants evacuated. 

6. 	
Special conditions simulated. 

7. 
Problems encountered. 

8. 	
Weather conditions when occupants were evacuated. 

9. 
Time required to accomplish complete evacuation. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 405.2 
FIRE AND EVACUATION DRILL 
FREQUENCY AND PARTICIPATION 


GROUP OR OCCUPANCY  FREQUENCY  PARTICIPATION  
Group A  Quarterly  Employees  
Group Be  Annually  Employees  
GroupE  See Section 408.3a  All occupants  
Group F  Annually  Employees  
Group I  Quarterly on each shift  Employeesb  
Group R-1  Quarterly on each shift  Employees  
Group R-2d  See Section 408.3a  All occupants  
Group R-4  Quarterly on each shift  Employeesb  
High-rise buildings  Annually  Employees  

II 
II 
a. The frequency shall be allowed to be modified in accordance with Section 
408.3.4.
II 
b. Fire and evacuation drills in residential care assisted living facilities shall include complete evacuation of the premises in accordance with Section 
408.10.5. Where occupants receive habilitation or rehabilitation training, fire prevention and fire safety practices shall be included as part of the training program. 
c. 	
Group B buildings having an occupant load of 500 or more persons or more than I 00 persons above or below the lowest level of exit discharge. 

d. 	
Applicable to Group R-2 college and university buildings in accordance with Section 408.3. 


> 
405.6 Notification. Where required by the fire code official, prior notification of emergency evacuation drills shall be given to the fire code official. 
405.7 Initiation. Where a fire alarm system is provided, emergency evacuation drills shall be initiated by activating the fire alarm system. 
405.8 Accountability. As building occupants arrive at the assembly point, efforts shall be made to determine if all occu­pants have been successfully evacuated or have been accounted for. 
405.9 Recall and reentry. An electrically or mechanically operated signal used to recall occupants after an evacuation shall be separate and distinct from the signal used to initiate the evacuation. The recall signal initiation means shall be manually operated and under the control of the person in charge of the premises or the official in charge of the inci­dent. No one shall reenter the premises until authorized to do so by the official in charge. 
SECTION 406 EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND RESPONSE PROCEDURES 

406.1 General. Employees in the occupancies listed in Sec­tion 404.2 shall be trained in the fire emergency procedures described in their fire evacuation and fire safety plans. Train­ing shall be based on these plans and as described in Section 
404.3. 
406.2 Frequency. Employees shall receive training in the contents of fire safety and evacuation plans and their duties as part of new employee orientation and at least annually there­
82 
after. Records shall be kept and made available to the fire code official upon request. 
406.3 Employee training program. Employees shall be trained in fire prevention, evacuation and fire safety in accor­dance with Sections 406.3.1 through 406.3.4. 
406.3.1 Fire prevention training. Employees shall be apprised of the fire hazards of the materials and processes to which they are exposed. Each employee shall be instructed in the proper procedures for preventing fires in the conduct of their assigned duties. 
406.3.2 Evacuation training. Employees shall be famil­iarized with the fire alarm and evacuation signals, their assigned duties in the event of an alarm or emergency, evacuation routes, areas of refuge, exterior assembly areas and procedures for evacuation. 
406.3.3 Emergency lockdown training. Where a facility has a lockdown plan, employees shall be trained on their assigned duties and procedures in the event of an emer­gency lockdown. 
406.3.4 Fire safety training. Employees assigned fire­fighting duties shall be trained to know the locations and proper use of portable fire extinguishers or other manual fire-fighting equipment and the protective clothing or equipment required for its safe and proper use. 
SECTION 407 
HAZARD COMMUNICATION 


407.1 General. The provisions of Sections 407.2 through 
407.7 shall be applicable where hazardous materials subject to permits under Section 5001.5 are located on the premises or where required by the fire code official. 
407.2 Material Safety Data Sheets. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for all hazardous materials shall be either readily available on the premises as a paper copy, or where approved, shall be permitted to be readily retrievable by elec­tronic access. 
407.3 Identification. Individual containers of hazardous materials, cartons or packages shall be marked or labeled in accordance with applicable federal regulations. Buildings, rooms and spaces containing hazardous materials shall be identified by hazard warning signs in accordance with Sec­tion 5003.5. 
407.4 Training. Persons responsible for the operation of areas in which hazardous materials are stored, dispensed, handled or used shall be familiar with the chemical nature of the materials and the appropriate mitigating actions necessary in the event of a fire, leak or spill. Responsible persons shall be designated and trained to be liaison personnel for the fire department. These persons shall aid the fire department in preplanning emergency responses and identification of the locations where hazardous materials are located, and shall have access to Material Safety Data Sheets and be knowl­edgeable in the site emergency response procedures. 
407.5 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement. Where required by the fire code official, each application for a per­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

mit shall include a Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (HMIS) in accordance with Section 5001.5.2. 
407.6 Hazardous Materials Management Plan. Where required by the fire code official, each application for a per­mit shall include a Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) in accordance with Section 5001.5.1. The fire code official is authorized to accept a similar plan required by other regulations. 
407.7 Facility closure plans. The permit holder or applicant shall submit to the fire code official a facility closure plan in accordance with Section 5001.6.3 to terminate storage, dis­pensing, handling or use of hazardous materials. 
SECTION 408 USE AND OCCUPANCY-RELATED REQUIREMENTS 
408.1 General. In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the provisions of this section are applicable to spe­cific occupancies listed herein. 
408.2 Group A occupancies. Group A occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.2.1 and 
408.2.2 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.2.1 Seating plan. The fire safety and evacuation plans for assembly occupancies shall include the information required by Section 404.3 and a detailed seating plan, occupant load and occupant load limit. Deviations from the approved plans shall be allowed provided the occupant load limit for the occupancy is not exceeded and the aisles and exit accessways remain unobstructed. 
408.2.2 Announcements. In theaters, motion picture the­aters, auditoriums and similar assembly occupancies in Group A used for noncontinuous programs, an audible announcement shall be made not more than 10 minutes prior to the start of each program to notify the occupants of the location of the exits to be used in the event of a fire or other emergency. 
Exception: In motion picture theaters, the announce­ment is allowed to be projected upon the screen in a manner approved by the fire code official. 

408.3 Group E occupancies and Group R-2 college and 
university buildings. Group E occupancies shall comply > with the requirements of Sections 408.3.1 through 408.3.1.1 II and Sections 401 through 403. Group R-2 college and univer­
sity buildings shall comply with the requirements of Sections 
408.3.2 and Sections 401 through 403. 
408.3.1 Group E Occupancies. Every person and public officer managing, controlling, or in charge of any public, private, or parochial school, other than a two-year com­munity college, shall cause the fire alarm signal to be sounded not less than once every calendar month at the elementary and intermediate levels, and not less than twice yearly at the secondary level in the manner pre­scribed in Section 907. Afire drill shall be held at the sec­ondary level not less than twice every school year. 
408.3.1.1 Emergency Pre-Fire Planning. Each school principal, district superintendent or day nursery man­ager shall, in cooperation with the enforcing agency, 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS 
prepare procedures to be followed in case of fire or other emergency. They should include the following: 
1. 	
Posting of the telephone number of the fire depart­ment in the office and/or at the main switchboard. 

2. 	
Assignment of a responsible person to call the fire department upon notification of any fire or activa­tion of the alarm system for any reason other than fire drills. 

3. 	
Posting in a conspicuous place in each classroom or assembly area a plan showing paths of travel to evacuate the room in case of emergency and includ­ing an alternate route. 

4. 	
Posting in each classroom instructions to be fol­lowed by the teacher. These should include: 


4.1 Maintaining oforder during evacuation. 
4.2. Removal of roll call book and calling of roll when designated evacuation area is reached. 

408.3.2 College and University Pre-Fire Planning. The Chancellor, President, or his designated representative, shall, in cooperation with the enforcing agency, propose procedures to be followed in case offire or other emer­gency in accordance with the provisions of Section 
408.3.1.1. 
408.3.3 First emergency evacuation drill. The first < emergency evacuation drill of each school year shall be conducted within 10 days of the beginning of classes. 
408.3.4 Emergency evacuation drill deferral. In severe 1 I < climates, the fire code official shall have the authority to modify the emergency evacuation drill frequency speci­fied in Section 405.2. 
408.3.5 Time of day. Emergency evacuation drills shall 1 I < be conducted at different hours of the day or evening, dur­ing the changing of classes, when the school is at assem­bly, during the recess or gymnastic periods, or during other times to avoid distinction between drills and actual fires. In Group R-2 college and university buildings, one required drill shall be held during hours after sunset or before sunrise. 
408.3.6 Assembly points. Outdoor assembly areas shall I I < be designated and shall be located a safe distance from the building being evacuated so as to avoid interference with fire department operations. The assembly areas shall be arranged to keep each class separate to provide account­ability of all individuals. 
408.4 Group H-5 occupancies. Group H-5 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.4.1 through 
408.4.4 and Sections 401 through 407. 
408.4.1 Plans and diagrams. In addition to the require­
ments of Section 404 and Section 407.6, plans and dia­
grams shall be maintained in approved locations indicating 
the approximate plan for each area, the amount and type of 
HPM stored, handled and used, locations of shutoff valves 
for HPM supply piping, emergency telephone locations 
and locations of exits. 

408.4.2 Plan updating. The plans and diagrams required 
by Section 408.4.1 shall be maintained up to date and the 

fire code official and fire department shall be informed of all major changes. 
408.4.3 Emergency response team. Responsible persons shall be designated the on-site emergency response team and trained to be liaison personnel for the fire department. These persons shall aid the fire department in preplanning emergency responses, identifying locations where HPM is stored, handled and used, and be familiar with the chemi­cal nature of such material. An adequate number of per­sonnel for each work shift shall be designated. 
408.4.4 Emergency drills. Emergency drills of the on-site emergency response team shall be conducted on a regular basis but not less than once every three months. Records of drills conducted shall be maintained. 
408.5 Group I-1 occupancies. Group I -1 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.5.1 through 
408.5.5 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.5.1 Fire safety and evacuation plan. The fire safety and evacuation plan required by Section 404 shall include special staff actions including fire protection procedures necessary for residents and shall be amended or revised upon admission of any resident with unusual needs. 
408.5.2 Staff training. Employees shall be periodically instructed and kept informed of their duties and responsi­bilities under the plan. Such instruction shall be reviewed by the staff at least every two months. A copy of the plan shall be readily available at all times within the facility. 
408.5.3 Resident training. Residents capable of assisting in their own evacuation shall be trained in the proper actions to take in the event of a fire. The training shall include actions to take if the primary escape route is blocked. Where the resident is given rehabilitation or habilitation training, training in fire prevention and actions to take in the event of a fire shall be a part of the rehabili­tation training program. Residents shall be trained to assist each other in case of fire to the extent their physical and mental abilities permit them to do so without additional personal risk. 
408.5.4 Drill frequency. Emergency evacuation drills shall be conducted at least six times per year, two times per year on each shift. Twelve drills shall be conducted in the first year of operation. Drills are not required to com­ply with the time requirements of Section 405.4. 
408.5.5 Resident participation. Emergency evacuation drills shall involve the actual evacuation of residents to a selected assembly point. 
408.6 Group I-2 occupancies. Group I-2 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.6.1 and 
408.6.2 and Sections 401 through 406. Drills are not required to comply with the time requirements of Section 405.4. 
408.6.1 Evacuation not required. During emergency evacuation drills, the movement of patients to safe areas or to the exterior of the building is not required. 
408.6.2 Coded alarm signal. When emergency evacua­tion drills are conducted after visiting hours or when patients or residents are expected to be asleep, a coded announcement is allowed instead of audible alarms. 
408.7 Group I-3 occupancies. Group I-3 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.7.1 through 
408.7.4 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.7.1 Employee training. Employees shall be instructed in the proper use of portable fire extinguishers and other manual fire suppression equipment. Training of new staff shall be provided promptly upon entrance on duty. Refresher training shall be provided at least annu­ally. 
408.7.2 Staffing. Group I-3 occupancies shall be provided with 24-hour staffing. Staff shall be within three floors or 300 feet (91 440 mm) horizontal distance of the access door of each resident housing area. In Use Conditions 3, 4 and 5, as defined in Chapter 2, the arrangement shall be such that the staff involved can start release of locks nec­essary for emergency evacuation or rescue and initiate other necessary emergency actions within 2 minutes of an alarm. 
Exception: Staff shall not be required to be within three floors or 300 feet (9144 mm) in areas in which all locks are unlocked remotely and automatically in accordance with Section 408.4 of the California Build­ing Code. 
408.7.3 Notification. Provisions shall be made for resi­dents in Use Conditions 3, 4 and 5, as defined in Chapter 2, to readily notify staff of an emergency. 
408.7.4 Keys. Keys necessary for unlocking doors installed in a means of egress shall be individually identi­fiable by both touch and sight. 
408.8 Group R-1 occupancies. Group R-1 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.8.1 through 
408.8.3 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.8.1 Evacuation diagrams. A diagram depicting two evacuation routes shall be posted on or immediately adja­cent to every required egress door from each hotel or motel sleeping unit. 
408.8.2 Emergency duties. Upon discovery of a fire or suspected fire, hotel and motel employees shall perform the following duties: 
1. 
Activate the fire alarm system, where provided. 

2. 
Notify the public fire department. 

3. 
Take other action as previously instructed. 


408.8.3 Fire safety and evacuation instructions. Infor­mation shall be provided in the fire safety and evacuation plan required by Section 404 to allow guests to decide whether to evacuate to the outside, evacuate to an area of refuge, remain in place, or any combination of the three. 
408.9 Group R-2 occupancies. Group R-2 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.9.1 through 
408.9.4 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.9.1 Emergency guide. A fire emergency guide shall be provided which describes the location, function and use of fire protection equipment and appliances accessible to 
EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS 
residents, including fire alarm systems, smoke alarms, and portable fire extinguishers. The guide shall also include an emergency evacuation plan for each dwelling unit. 
408.9.2 Evacuation diagrams in Group R-2 dormito­ries. A diagram depicting two evacuation routes shall be posted on or immediately adjacent to every required egress door from each Group R-2 dormitory sleeping unit. 
408.9.3 Maintenance. Emergency guides shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Section 401.2. Evacuation diagrams shall be reviewed and updated in accordance with Section 404.4. 
408.9.4 Distribution. A copy of the emergency guide shall be given to each tenant prior to initial occupancy. 

408.10 Group R-4 occupancies. Group R-4 occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.10.1 through 408.10.5 and Sections 401 through 406. 
408.10.1 Fire safety and evacuation plan. The fire safety and evacuation plan required by Section 404 shall include special staff actions, including fire protection procedures necessary for residents, and shall be amended or revised upon admission of a resident with unusual needs. 
408.10.2 Staff training. Employees shall be periodically instructed and kept informed of their duties and responsi­bilities under the plan. Such instruction shall be reviewed by the staff at least every two months. A copy of the plan shall be readily available at all times within the facility. 
408.10.3 Resident training. Residents capable of assist­ing in their own evacuation shall be trained in the proper actions to take in the event of a fire. The training shall include actions to take if the primary escape route is blocked. Where the resident is given rehabilitation or habilitation training, training in fire prevention and actions to take in the event of a fire shall be a part of the rehabili­tation training program. Residents shall be trained to assist each other in case of fire to the extent their physical and mental abilities permit them to do so without additional personal risk. 
408.10.4 Drill frequency. Emergency evacuation drills shall be conducted at least six times per year, two times per year on each shift. Twelve drills shall be conducted in the first year of operation. Drills are not required to com­ply with the time requirements of Section 405.4. 

408.10.5 Resident participation. Emergency evacuation drills shall involve the actual evacuation of residents to a selected assembly point and shall provide residents with experience in exiting through all required exits. All required exits shall be used during emergency evacuation drills. 
Exception: Actual exiting from windows shall not be required. Opening the window and signaling for help shall be an acceptable alternative. 

408.11 Covered and open mall buildings. Covered and open mall buildings shall comply with the provisions of Sec­tions 408.11.1 through 408.11.3. 
408.11.1 Lease plan. A lease plan shall be prepared for each covered and open mall building. The plan shall include the following information in addition to that required by Section 404.3.2: 
1. 	
Each occupancy, including identification of tenant. 

2. 	
Exits from each tenant space. 

3. 	
Fire protection features, including the following: 


3.1. Fire department connections. 
3.2. Fire command center. 
3.3. Smoke management system controls. 
3.4. Elevators, elevator machine rooms and controls. 
3.5. Hose valve outlets. 
3.6. Sprinkler and standpipe control valves. 
3.7. Automatic fire-extinguishing system areas. 
3.8. Automatic fire detector zones. 
3.9. Fire barriers. 
408.11.1.1 Approval. The lease plan shall be submitted to the fire code official for approval, and shall be main­tained on site for immediate reference by responding fire service personnel. 
408.11.1.2 Revisions. The lease plans shall be revised annually or as often as necessary to keep them current. Modifications or changes in tenants or occupancies shall not be made without prior approval of the fire code official and building official. 

408.11.2 Tenant identification. Each occupied tenant space provided with a secondary exit to the exterior or exit corridor shall be provided with tenant identification by business name and/or address. Letters and numbers shall be posted on the corridor side of the door, be plainly legi­ble and shall contrast with their background. 
Exception: Tenant identification is not required for anchor stores. 

408.11.3 Maintenance. Unoccupied tenant spaces shall be: 
1. 	
Kept free from the storage of any materials. 

2. 	
Separated from the remainder of the building by par­titions of at least 0.5-inch-thick (12.7 mm) gypsum board or an approved equivalent to the underside of the ceiling of the adjoining tenant spaces. 

3. 	
Without doors or other access openings other than one door that shall be kept key locked in the closed position except during that time when opened for inspection. 

4. 	
Kept free from combustible waste and be broom-swept clean. 



408.12 Organized Camps. Group C occupancies shall com­ply with the requirements of Sections 408.12.1 through 
408.12.3. 
408.12.1 Staff training and evacuation plan. Every orga­nized camp shall institute fire training programs for all employees in the use of all fire extinguishing equipment and methods ofevacuation, and shall establish procedures which shall, as far as possible, be followed in the event of 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
fire or any other emergency. If located in a forest area, a 
plan shall be prepared for the evacuation of the camp in 
case ofan approaching forest fire or other emergency. 
408.12.2 Resident training. Within 24 hours after arrival, eve1y group ofpersons attending an organized camp shall be made familiar with the method by which the fire alarm may be activated and with the procedures to be followed upon notification offire. 
408.12.3 Fire drills. At least one fire drill shall be held within 24 hours of the commencement of each camping session. Additional drills shall be conducted at least once each week thereafter. When sessions exceed a 7-day period, at least one drill shall be held during night-time sleeping hours. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE – MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 5 – FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  SS  1  2  3  4  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  X  
Chapter / Section  
[T-19 §3.05 (a)]  X  
503  †  
[T-19 §3.05 (b)]  X  
504.4  X  
507.2.1  X  
507.3  X  
507.5  X  
507.3  X  
507.5  X  
507.5.1  X  
507.5.3  X  
508.1  X  
508.1.2  X  
508.1.5  X  
508.1.6  X  
510.2  †  

This state agency does not adopt sections identified with the following symbol: † 
*The California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user’s convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part III—Building and Equipment Design Features 
CHAPTER 5 
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 
SECTION 501 
GENERAL 


501.1 Scope. Fire service features for buildings, structures and premises shall comply with this chapter. 
501.2 Permits. A permit shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
501.3 Construction documents. Construction documents for proposed fire apparatus access, location of fire lanes, security gates across fire apparatus access roads and construction doc­uments and hydraulic calculations for fire hydrant systems shall be submitted to the fire department for review and approval prior to construction. 
501.4 Timing of installation. When fire apparatus access roads or a water supply for fire protection is required to be installed, such protection shall be installed and made service­able prior to and during the time of construction except when approved alternative methods of protection are provided. Temporary street signs shall be installed at each street inter­section when construction of new roadways allows passage by vehicles in accordance with Section 505.2. 
SECTION 502 
DEFINITIONS 


502.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
AGENCY. 
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
FIRE COMMAND CENTER. 
FIRE DEPARTMENT MASTER KEY. 
FIRE LANE. 
KEY BOX. 
TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICES. 
SECTION 503 
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS 


503.1 Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained in accordance with Sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.3. 
503.1.1 Buildings and facilities. Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every facility, building or portion of a building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of this section and shall extend to within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of all por­tions of the facility and all portions of the exterior walls of the first story of the building as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the building or facility. 
Exception: The fire code official is authorized to increase the dimension of 150 feet (45 720 mm) where: 
1. The building is equipped throughout	 with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 
903.3.1.3. 
2. 
Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of location on property, topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or other similar conditions, and an approved alternative means of fire protection is provided. 

3. 
There are not more than two Group R-3 or Group U occupancies. 



503.1.2 Additional access. The fire code official is autho­rized to require more than one fire apparatus access road based on the potential for impairment of a single road by vehicle congestion, condition of terrain, climatic condi­tions or other factors that could limit access. 
503.1.3 High-piled storage. Fire department vehicle access to buildings used for high-piled combustible stor­age shall comply with the applicable provisions of Chapter 
32. 
503.2 Specifications. Fire apparatus access roads shall be installed and arranged in accordance with Sections 503.2.1 through 503.2.8. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.05(a)] Fire Department Access and Egress. (Roads) 
(a) Roads. Required access roads from every building to a public street shall be all-weather hard-surfaced (suitable for use by fire apparatus) right-of-way not less than 20 feet in width. Such right-of-way shall be unobstructed and maintained only as access to the public street. 
Exception: The enforcing agency may waive or modify this requirement if in his opinion such all-weather hard-surfaced condition is not necessary in the interest of public safety and welfare. 
503.2.1 Dimensions. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm), exclusive of shoulders, except for approved security gates in accordance with Section 503.6, and an unob­structed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet 6 inches (4115 mm). 
503.2.2 Authority. The fire code official shall have the authority to require an increase in the minimum access widths where they are inadequate for fire or rescue opera­tions. 
503.2.3 Surface. Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of fire apparatus and shall be surfaced so as to provide all-weather driving capabilities. 
503.2.4 Turning radius. The required turning radius of a fire apparatus access road shall be determined by the fire code official. 
503.2.5 Dead ends. Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet (45 720 mm) in length shall be pro­vided with an approved area for turning around fire appa­ratus. 
503.2.6 Bridges and elevated surfaces. Where a bridge or an elevated surface is part of a fire apparatus access road, the bridge shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with AASHTO HB-17. Bridges and elevated surfaces shall be designed for a live load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus. Vehicle load limits shall be posted at both entrances to bridges when required by the fire code official. Where elevated surfaces designed for emergency vehicle use are adjacent to surfaces which are not designed for such use, approved barriers, approved signs or both shall be installed and maintained when required by the fire code official. 
503.2.7 Grade. The grade of the fire apparatus access road shall be within the limits established by the fire code offi­cial based on the fire department’s apparatus. 
503.2.8 Angles of approach and departure. The angles of approach and departure for fire apparatus access roads shall be within the limits established by the fire code offi­cial based on the fire department's apparatus. 
503.3 Marking. Where required by the fire code official, approved signs or other approved notices or markings that include the words NO PARKING—FIRE LANE shall be provided for fire apparatus access roads to identify such roads or prohibit the obstruction thereof. The means by which fire lanes are designated shall be maintained in a clean and legible condition at all times and be replaced or repaired when neces­sary to provide adequate visibility. 
503.4 Obstruction of fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads shall not be obstructed in any manner, including the parking of vehicles. The minimum widths and clearances established in Section 503.2.1 shall be maintained at all times. 
BUFF 
503.4.1. Traffic calming devices. Traffic calming devices shall be prohibited unless approved by the fire code offi­cial. 

503.5 Required gates or barricades. The fire code official is authorized to require the installation and maintenance of gates or other approved barricades across fire apparatus access roads, trails or other accessways, not including public streets, alleys or highways. Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed, con­structed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTMF2200. 
503.5.1 Secured gates and barricades. When required, gates and barricades shall be secured in an approved man­ner. Roads, trails and other accessways that have been closed and obstructed in the manner prescribed by Section 
503.5 shall not be trespassed on or used unless authorized by the owner and the fire code official. 
Exception: The restriction on use shall not apply to public officers acting within the scope of duty. 

503.5.2 Fences and Gates. School grounds may be fenced and gates therein may be equipped with locks, provided that safe dispersal areas based on 3 square feet (0.28 m2) per occupant are located between the school and the fence. Such required safe dispersal areas shall not be located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from school build­ings. 
Every public and private school shall conform with Sec­tion 32020 ofthe Education Code which states: 
The governing board of every public school district, and the governing authority of every pri­vate school, which maintains any building used for the instruction or housing of school pupils on land entirely enclosed (except for building walls) by fences of walls, shall, through cooperation with the local law enforcement and fire-protec­tion agencies having jurisdiction of the area, make provision for the erection of gates in such fences or walls. The gates shall be of sufficient size to permit the entrance of the ambulances, police equipment and fire-fighting apparatus used by the law enforcement and fire-protection agencies. There shall be no less than one such access gate and there shall be as many such gates as needed to assure access to all major buildings and ground areas. If such gates are to be equipped with locks, the locking devices shall be designed to permit ready entrance by the use of the chain or bolt-cutting devices with which the local law enforcement and fire-protection agen­cies may be equipped. 

503.6 Security gates. The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus access road shall be approved by the fire chief. Where security gates are installed, they shall have an approved means of emergency operation. The security gates and the emergency operation shall be maintained operational at all times. Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates intended for auto-
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 

matic operation shall be designed, constructed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTM F 2200. 
SECTION 504 
ACCESS TO BUILDING OPENINGS AND ROOFS 

504.1 Required access. Exterior doors and openings required by this code or the California Building Code shall be main­tained readily accessible for emergency access by the fire department. An approved access walkway leading from fire apparatus access roads to exterior openings shall be provided when required by the fire code official. 
504.2 Maintenance of exterior doors and openings. Exte­rior doors and their function shall not be eliminated without prior approval. Exterior doors that have been rendered non­functional and that retain a functional door exterior appear­ance shall have a sign affixed to the exterior side of the door with the words THIS DOOR BLOCKED. The sign shall con­sist of letters having a principal stroke of not less than 3/ 4 inch 
(19.1 mm) wide and at least 6 inches (152 mm) high on a contrasting background. Required fire department access doors shall not be obstructed or eliminated. Exit and exit access doors shall comply with Chapter 10. Access doors for high-piled combustible storage shall comply with Section 3206.6.1. 
504.3 Stairway access to roof. New buildings four or more stories above grade plane, except those with a roof slope greater than four units vertical in 12 units horizontal (33.3­percent slope), shall be provided with a stairway to the roof. Stairway access to the roof shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 1009.13. Such stairway shall be marked at street and floor levels with a sign indicating that the stairway continues to the roof. Where roofs are used for roof gardens or for other purposes, stairways shall be provided as required for such occupancy classification. 
504.4 Roof access. No person shall install or maintain any security barrier such as barbed wire fencing, razor wire fenc­ing, chain link fencing, or any other fencing material, cable, aerial, antenna, or other obstruction on the roof ofany com­mercial establishment in such a manner as to obstruct or ren­der egress or access hazardous in the event offire or other emergency. 
Exception: Guy wire, rods and aerial antenna masts may be attached to a roof structure having a slope ofless than 30 degrees provided there is full clearance of 7 feet or more between the roof and said obstruction. Guy wire or rods required to support aerial or antenna masts may be attached to a roof structure a lateral distance from the mast not in excess ofone-sixth the height ofthe mast. 
SECTION 505 
PREMISES IDENTIFICATION 


505.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building numbers or approved building identification placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their back­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
ground. Where required by the fire code official, address numbers shall be provided in additional approved locations to facilitate emergency response. Address numbers shall be Ara­bic numbers or alphabetical letters. Numbers shall be a mini­mum of 4 inches (101.6 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm). Where access is by means of a private road and the building cannot be viewed from the pub­lic way, a monument, pole or other sign or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address numbers shall be main­tained. 
505.2 Street or road signs. Streets and roads shall be identi­fied with approved signs. Temporary signs shall be installed at each street intersection when construction of new road­ways allows passage by vehicles. Signs shall be of an approved size, weather resistant and be maintained until replaced by permanent signs. 
SECTION 506 
KEY BOXES 


506.1 Where required. Where access to or within a structure or an area is restricted because of secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official is authorized to require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The key box shall be of an approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037, and shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code official. 
506.1.1 Locks. An approved lock shall be installed on gates or similar barriers when required by the fire code official. 
506.1.2 Key boxes for nonstandardized fire service ele­vator keys. Key boxes provided for nonstandardized fire service elevator keys shall comply with Section 506.1 and all of the following: 
1. 	
The key box shall be compatible with an existing rapid entry key box system in use in the jurisdiction and approved by the fire code official. 

2. 
The front cover shall be permanently labeled with the words "Fire Department Use Only-Elevator Keys." 

3. 	
The key box shall be mounted at each elevator bank at the lobby nearest to the lowest level of fire depart­ment access. 

4. 
The key box shall be mounted 5 feet 6 inches (1676 mm) above the finished floor to the right side of the elevator bank. 

5. 	
Contents of the key box are limited to fire service elevator keys. Additional elevator access tools, keys and information pertinent to emergency planning or elevator access shall be permitted when authorized by the fire code official. 

6. 	
In buildings with two or more elevator banks, a sin­gle key box shall be permitted to be used when such elevator banks are separated by not more than 30 feet (9144 mm). Additional key boxes shall be pro­


vided for each individual elevator or elevator bank separated by more than 30 feet (9144 mm). 
Exception: A single key box shall be permitted to be located adjacent to a fire command center or the non­standard fire service elevator key shall be permitted to be secured in a key box used for other purposes and located in accordance with Section 506.1. 
506.2 Key box maintenance. The operator of the building shall immediately notify the fire code official and provide the new key when a lock is changed or rekeyed. The key to such lock shall be secured in the key box. 
SECTION 507 FIRE PROTECTION WATER SUPPLIES 
507.1 Required water supply. An approved water supply capable of supplying the required fire flow for fire protection shall be provided to premises upon which facilities, buildings or portions of buildings are hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. 
507.2 Type of water supply. A water supply shall consist of reservoirs, pressure tanks, elevated tanks, water mains or other fixed systems capable of providing the required fire flow. 
507.2.1 Private fire service mains. Private fire service mains and appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 24 as amended in Chapter 47. 
507.2.2 Water tanks. Water tanks for private fire protec­tion shall be installed in accordance with NFP A 22. 
507.3 Fire flow. Fire flow requirements for buildings or por­tions of buildings and facilities shall be determined by an approved method or Appendix B. 
507.4 Water supply test. The fire code official shall be noti­fied prior to the water supply test. Water supply tests shall be witnessed by the fire code official or approved documenta­tion of the test shall be provided to the fire code official prior to final approval of the water supply system. 
507.5 Fire hydrant systems. Fire hydrant systems shall com­ply with Sections 507.5.1 through 507.5.6 and Appendix C, or by an approved method. 
507.5.1 Where required. Where a portion of the facility or building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than 400 feet (122 m) from a hydrant on a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the facility or build­ing, on-site fire hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the fire code official. 
Exception: 
1. 	For Group R-3 and Group U occupancies, equi­ped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3, the dis­tance requirement shall be not more than 600 feet (183m). < 
507.5.1.1 Hydrant for standpipe systems. Buildings equipped with a standpipe system installed in accor­
dance with Section 905 shall have a fire hydrant within 100 feet (30 m) of the fire department connections. 
Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed 100 feet (30 m) where approved by the fire code official. 

507.5.2 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire hydrant systems shall be subject to periodic tests as required by the fire code official. Fire hydrant systems shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times and shall be repaired where defective. Additions, repairs, alterations and servicing shall comply with approved stan­dards. 
507.5.3 Private fire service mains and water tanks. Pri­vate fire service mains and water tanks shall be periodi­cally inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with 
California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, > Chapter 5. 
507.5.4 Obstruction. Unobstructed access to fire hydrants shall be maintained at all times. The fire department shall not be deterred or hindered from gaining immediate access to fire protection equipment or fire hydrants. 
507.5.5 Clear space around hydrants. A 3-foot (914 mm) clear space shall be maintained around the circumfer­ence of fire hydrants, except as otherwise required or approved. 
507.5.6 Physical protection. Where fire hydrants are sub­ject to impact by a motor vehicle, guard posts or other approved means shall comply with Section 312. 
SECTION 508 FIRE COMMAND CENTER 

508.1 General. Where required by other sections of this code and in all buildings classified as high-rise buildings by the 
California Building Code and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access, a fire command center for fire department operations shall be provided and shall comply with Sections 508.1.1 through 508.1.5. 
508.1.1 Location and access. The location and accessibil­ity of the fire command center shall be approved by the fire chief. 
508.1.2 Separation. The fire command center shall be separated from the remainder of the building by not less than a 1-hour fire barrier constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assembly constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 
508.1.3 Size. The fire command center shall be a mini­mum of 200 square feet (19 m2) in area with a minimum dimension of 10 feet (3048 mm). 
508.1.4 Layout approval. A layout of the fire command center and all features required by this section to be con­tained therein shall be submitted for approval prior to installation. 
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 

508.1.5 Required features. The fire command center shall comply with NFP A 72 and shall contain the follow­ing features: 
1. 	
The emergency voice/alarm communication sys­tem control unit. 

2. 	
The fire department communications system. 


3. 	Fire alarm system zoning annunciator panel required by Section 907.6.3.3. 
4. 	
Annunciator unit visually indicating the location of the elevators and whether they are operational. 

5. 	
Status indicators and controls for air distribution systems. 

6. 	
The fire-fighter's control panel required by Sec­tion 909.16 for smoke control systems installed in the building. 

7. 	
Controls for unlocking stairway doors simultane­ously. 

8. 	
Sprinkler valve and water-flow detector display panels. 

9. 	
Emergency and standby power status indicators. 

10. 	
A telephone for fire department use with con­trolled access to the public telephone system. 

11. 	
Fire pump status indicators. 

12. 	
Schematic building plans indicating the typical floor plan and detailing the building core, means of egress, fire protection systems, fire-fighting equipment and fire department access, and the location of fire walls, fire barriers, fire partitions, smoke barriers and smoke partitions. 

13. 	
An approved Building Information Card that con­tains, but is not limited to, the following informa­tion: 


13.1. General building information that includes: property name, address, the number of floors in the building (above and below grade), use and occupancy classification (for mixed uses, identify the different types of occupancies on each floor), estimated building population (i.e., day, night, weekend); 
13.2. Building emergency contact information that includes: a list of the building's emer­gency contacts (e.g., building manager, building engineer, etc.) and their respec­tive work phone number, cell phone num­ber, and e-mail address; 
13.3. Building 	construction information that includes: the type of building construction (e.g., floors, walls, columns, and roof assembly); 
13.4. Exit stair information that includes: num­ber of exit stairs in the building, each exit stair designation and floors served, loca­tion where each exit stair discharges, exit 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
> 
II 

FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 
stairs that are pressurized, exit stairs pro­vided with emergency lighting, each exit stair that allows reentry, exit stairs pro­viding roof access; elevator information that includes: number of elevator banks, elevator bank designation, elevator car numbers and respective floors that they serve, location of elevator machine rooms, location of sky lobby, location of freight elevator banks; 
13.5. 	Building services and system information that includes: location of mechanical rooms, location of building management system, location and capacity of all fuel oil tanks, location of emergency genera­tor, location of natural gas service; 
13.6. 	Fire protection system information that includes: locations of standpipes, location of fire pump room, location of fire depart­ment connections, floors protected by automatic sprinklers, location of different types of automatic sprinkler systems installed (e.g., dry, wet, pre-action, etc.); and 

13.7. 	
Hazardous material information that includes: location of hazardous material, quantity of hazardous material. 


14. 	
Work table. 

15. 	
Generator supervision devices, manual start and transfer features. 

16. 	
Public address system, where specifically required by other sections of this code. 


17. 	Elevator fire recall switch in accordance with Cal­ifornia Code of Regulations, Title 8, Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 6, Elevator Safety Orders. 
18. 	Elevator emergency or standby power selector switch(es), where emergency or standby power is provided. 
19. 	A master switch for unlocking elevator lobby doors permitted by Section 1008.1.4.6. 
Fire command centers shall not be used for the housing of any boiler, heating unit, generator, combustible stor­age, or similar hazardous equipment or storage. 
508.1.6 Ventilation. The fire command center shall be provided with an independent ventilation or air-condition­ing system. 
SECTION 509 
FIRE PROTECTION AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT 
IDENTIFICATION AND ACCESS 

509.1 Identification. Fire protection equipment shall be identified in an approved manner. Rooms containing controls for air-conditioning systems, sprinkler risers and valves, or other fire detection, suppression or control elements shall be identified for the use of the fire depattment. Approved signs required to identify fire protection equipment and equipment location shall be constructed of durable materials, perma­nently installed and readily visible. 
509.1.1 Utility identification. Where required by the fire code official, gas shutoff valves, electric meters, service switches and other utility equipment shall be clearly and legibly marked to identify the unit or space that it serves. Identification shall be made in an approved manner, read­ily visible and shall be maintained. 
509.2 Equipment access. Approved access shall be provided and maintained for all fire protection equipment to permit immediate safe operation and maintenance of such equip­ment. Storage, trash and other materials or objects shall not be placed or kept in such a manner that would prevent such equipment from being readily accessible. 
SECTION 510 
EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE 

510.1 Emergency responder radio coverage in new build­ings. All new buildings shall have approved radio coverage for emergency responders within the building based upon the existing coverage levels of the public safety communication systems of the jurisdiction at the exterior of the building. This section shall not require improvement of the existing public safety communication systems. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where approved by the building official and the fire code official, a wired communication system in accordance with Section 907.2.13.2 shall be permit­ted to be installed or maintained in lieu of an approved radio coverage system. 

2. 	
Where it is determined by the fire code official that the radio coverage system is not needed. 

3. 	
In facilities where emergency responder radio cover­age is required and such systems, components or equipment required could have a negative impact on the normal operations of that facility, the fire code official shall have the authority to accept an auto­matically activated emergency responder radio cov­erage system. 


510.2 Emergency responder radio coverage in existing buildings. Existing buildings shall be provided with approved radio coverage for emergency responders as required in Chapter 11. 
510.3 Permit required. A construction permit for the instal­lation of or modification to emergency responder radio cover­age systems and related equipment is required as specified in Section 105.7.5. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit. 
510.4 Technical requirements. Systems, components, and equipment required to provide emergency responder radio coverage system shall comply with Sections 510.4.1 through 
510.4.2.5. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
510.4.1 Radio signal strength. The building shall be con­sidered to have acceptable emergency responder radio coverage when signal strength measurements in 95 percent of all areas on each floor of the building meet the signal strength requirements in Sections 510.4.1.1 and 510.4.1.2. 
510.4.1.1 Minimum signal strength into the build­ing. A minimum signal strength of -95 dBm shall be receivable within the building. 
510.4.1.2 Minimum signal strength out of the build­ing. A minimum signal strength of -95 dBm shall be received by the agency's radio system when transmit­ted from within the building. 
510.4.2 System design. The emergency responder radio coverage system shall be designed in accordance with Sec­tions 510.4.2.1 through 510.4.2.5. 
510.4.2.1 Amplification systems allowed. Buildings and structures which cannot support the required level of radio coverage shall be equipped with a radiating cable system, a distributed antenna system with Federal Communications Commission (FCC)-certified signal boosters, or other system approved by the fire code official in order to achieve the required adequate radio coverage. 
510.4.2.2 Technical criteria. The fire code official shall maintain a document providing the specific tech­nical information and requirements for the emergency responder radio coverage system. This document shall contain, but not be limited to, the various frequencies required, the location of radio sites, effective radiated power of radio sites, and other supporting technical information. 
510.4.2.3 Secondary power. Emergency responder radio coverage systems shall be provided with an approved secondary source of power. The secondary power supply shall be capable of operating the emer­gency responder radio coverage system for a period of at least 24 hours. When primary power is lost, the power supply to the emergency responder radio cover­age system shall automatically transfer to the secondary power supply. 
510.4.2.4 Signal booster requirements. If used, signal boosters shall meet the following requirements: 
1. 	
All signal booster components shall be contained in a National Electrical Manufacturer's Associa­tion (NEMA) 4-type waterproof cabinet. 

2. 	
Battery systems used for the emergency power source shall be contained in a NEMA 4-type waterproof cabinet. 

3. 	
The signal booster system and battery system shall be electrically supervised and monitored by a supervisory service, or when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an audible signal at a constantly attended location. 

4. 
Equipment shall have FCC certification prior to installation. 


FIRE SERVICE FEATURES 
510.4.2.5 Additional frequencies and change of fre­quencies. The emergency responder radio coverage system shall be capable of modification or expansion in the event frequency changes are required by the FCC or additional frequencies are made available by the FCC. 

510.5 Installation requirements. The installation of the pub­lic safety radio coverage system shall be in accordance with Sections 510.5.1 through 510.5.4. 
510.5.1 Approval prior to installation. Amplification systems capable of operating on frequencies licensed to any public safety agency by the FCC shall not be installed without prior coordination and approval of the fire code official. 
510.5.2 Minimum qualifications of personnel. The mini­mum qualifications of the system designer and lead instal­lation personnel shall include: 
1. 	
A valid FCC-issued general radio operators license; and 

2. 	
Certification of in-building system training issued by a nationally recognized organization, school or a certificate issued by the manufacturer of the equip­ment being installed. 


These qualifications shall not be required where dem­

onstration of adequate skills and experience satisfactory to 
the fire code official is provided. 
510.5.3 Acceptance test procedure. When an emergency responder radio coverage system is required, and upon completion of installation, the building owner shall have the radio system tested to ensure that two-way coverage on each floor of the building is a minimum of 90 percent. The test procedure shall be conducted as follows: 
1. 	
Each floor of the building shall be divided into a grid of 20 approximately equal test areas. 

2. 	
The test shall be conducted using a calibrated porta­ble radio of the latest brand and model used by the agency talking through the agency's radio com­munications system. 

3. 	
Failure of a maximum of two nonadjacent test areas shall not result in failure of the test. 

4. 
In the 	event that three of the test areas fail the test, in order to be more statistically accurate, the floor shall be permitted to be divided into 40 equal test areas. Failure of a maximum of four nonadjacent test areas shall not result in failure of the test. If the system fails the 40-area test, the system shall be altered to meet the 90 percent coverage requirement. 

5. 	
A test location approximately in the center of each test area shall be selected for the test, with the radio enabled to verify two-way communications to and from the outside of the building through the public agency's radio communications system. Once the test location has been selected, that location shall represent the entire test area. Failure in the selected test location shall be considered failure of that test area. Additional test locations shall not be permitted. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6. 	
The gain values of all amplifiers shall be measured and the test measurement results shall be kept on file with the building owner so that the measurements can be verified during annual tests. In the event that the measurement results become lost, the building owner shall be required to rerun the acceptance test to reestablish the gain values. 

7. 	
As part of the installation a spectrum analyzer or other suitable test equipment shall be utilized to ensure spurious oscillations are not being generated by the subject signal booster. This test shall be con­ducted at time of installation and subsequent annual inspections. 


510.5.4 FCC compliance. The emergency responder radio coverage system installation and components shall also comply with all applicable federal regulations includ­ing, but not limited to, FCC 47 CFR Part 90.219. 
510.6 Maintenance. The emergency responder radio cover­age system shall be maintained operational at all times in accordance with Sections 510.6.1 through 510.6.3. 
510.6.1 Testing and proof of compliance. The emer­gency responder radio coverage system shall be inspected and tested annually or whenever structural changes occur including additions or remodels that could materially change the original field performance tests. Testing shall consist of the following: 
1. 	In-building coverage test as described in Section 
510.5.3. 

2. 	
Signal boosters shall be tested to ensure that the gain is the same as it was upon initial installation and acceptance. 

3. 	
Backup batteries and power supplies shall be tested under load of a period of one hour to verify that they will properly operate during an actual power outage. If within the 1-hour test period the battery exhibits symptoms of failure, the test shall be extended for additional 1-hour periods until the integrity of the battery can be determined. 

4. 
All other active components shall be checked to ver­ify operation within the manufacturer's specifica­tions. 

5. 	
At the conclusion of the testing, a report, which shall verify compliance with Section 510.5.3, shall be submitted to the fire code official. 


510.6.2 Additional frequencies. The building owner shall modify or expand the emergency responder radio coverage system at their expense in the event frequency changes are required by the FCC or additional frequencies are made available by the FCC. Prior approval of a public safety radio coverage system on previous frequencies does not exempt this section. 
510.6.3 Field testing. Agency personnel shall have the right to enter onto the property at any reasonable time to conduct field testing to verify the required level of radio coverage. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 6-BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


* The Califomw Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, D1v1s10n 1 prov1s10ns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 6 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 
SECTION 601 
GENERAL 


601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the installation, operation and maintenance of fuel-fired appli­ances and heating systems, emergency and standby power systems, electrical systems and equipment, mechanical refrigeration systems, elevator recall, stationary storage bat­tery systems and commercial kitchen equipment. 
601.2 Permits. Permits shall be obtained for refrigeration systems, battery systems and solar photovoltaic power sys­tems as set forth in Sections 105.6 and 105.7. 
SECTION 602 
DEFINITIONS 


602.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­
ter 2: 
BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY LEAD-ACID. 
BATTERY TYPES. 
COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES. 
HOOD. 

Type I. 
Type II. 


REFRIGERANT. 
REFRIGERATION SYSTEM. 
SECTION 603 
FUEL-FIRED APPLIANCES 


603.1 Installation. The installation of nonportable fuel gas appliances and systems shall comply with the California Mechanical Code. The installation of all other fuel-fired appliances, other than internal combustion engines, oil lamps and portable devices such as blow torches, melting pots and weed burners, shall comply with this section and the Califor­nia Mechanical Code. 
603.1.1 Manufacturer's instructions. The installation shall be made in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and applicable federal, state and local rules and regulations. Where it becomes necessary to change, modify or alter a manufacturer's instructions in any way, written approval shall first be obtained from the manufac­turer. 
603.1.2 Approval. The design, construction and installa­tion of fuel-fired appliances shall be in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
603.1.3 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wir­ing and equipment used in connection with oil-burning 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with Section 605 and NFP A 70. 
603.1.4 Fuel oil. The grade of fuel oil used in a burner shall be that for which the burner is approved and as stipu­lated by the burner manufacturer. Oil containing gasoline shall not be used. Waste crankcase oil shall be an accept­able fuel in Group F, M and S occupancies, when utilized in equipment listed for use with waste oil and when such equipment is installed in accordance with the manufac­turer's instructions and the terms of its listing. 
603.1.5 Access. The installation shall be readily accessible for cleaning hot surfaces; removing burners; replacing motors, controls, air filters, chimney connectors, draft reg­ulators and other working parts; and for adjusting, clean­ing and lubricating parts. 
603.1.6 Testing, diagrams and instructions. After instal­lation of the oil-burning equipment, operation and com­bustion performance tests shall be conducted to determine that the burner is in proper operating condition and that all accessory equipment, controls, and safety devices function properly. 
603.1.6.1 Diagrams. Contractors installing industrial oil-burning systems shall furnish not less than two cop­ies of diagrams showing the main oil lines and control­ling valves, one copy of which shall be posted at the oil-burning equipment and another at an approved loca­tion that will be accessible in case of emergency. 
603.1.6.2 Instructions. After completing the installa­tion, the installer shall instruct the owner or operator in the proper operation of the equipment. The installer shall also furnish the owner or operator with the name and telephone number of persons to contact for techni­cal information or assistance and routine or emergency services. 
603.1.7 Clearances. Working clearances between oil­fired appliances and electrical panelboards and equipment shall be in accordance with NFP A 70. Clearances between oil-fired equipment and oil supply tanks shall be in accor­dance with NFP A 31. 
603.2 Chimneys. Masonry chimneys shall be constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. Factory-built chimneys shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. Metal chimneys shall be constructed and installed in accordance with NFPA 211. 
603.3 Fuel oil storage systems. Fuel oil storage systems shall be installed in accordance with this code. Fuel-oil piping systems shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
603.3.1 Fuel oil storage in outside, above-ground tanks. Where connected to a fuel-oil piping system, the maxi­mum amount of fuel oil storage allowed outside above ground without additional protection shall be 660 gallons (2498 L). The storage of fuel oil above ground in quanti­ties exceeding 660 gallons (2498 L) shall comply with NFPA 31. 
603.3.2 Fuel oil storage inside buildings. Fuel oil storage inside buildings shall comply with Sections 603.3.2.1 through 603.3.2.5 or Chapter 57. 
603.3.2.1 Quantity limits. One or more fuel oil storage tanks containing Class II or III combustible liquid shall be permitted in a building. The aggregate capacity of all such tanks shall not exceed 660 gallons (2498 L). 
Exception: The aggregate capacity limit shall be permitted to be increased to 3,000 gallons (11 356 L) of Class II or III liquid for storage in protected above-ground tanks complying with Section 5704.2.9.7, when all of the following conditions are met: 
1. 	
The entire 3,000-gallon (11 356 L) quantity shall be stored in protected above-ground tanks; 

2. 	
The 3,000-gallon (11 356 L) capacity shall be permitted to be stored in a single tank or mul­tiple smaller tanks; and 

3. 	
The tanks shall be located in a room protected by an automatic sprinkler system complying with Section 903.3.1.1. 



603.3.2.2 Restricted use and connection. Tanks installed in accordance with Section 603.3.2 shall be used only to supply fuel oil to fuel-burning or generator equipment installed in accordance with Section 
603.3.2.4. Connections between tanks and equipment supplied by such tanks shall be made using closed pip­ing systems. 
603.3.2.3 Applicability of maximum allowable quan­tity and control area requirements. The quantity of combustible liquid stored in tanks complying with Sec­tion 603.3.2 shall not be counted towards the maximum allowable quantity set forth in Table 5003.1.1 ( 1 ), and such tanks shall not be required to be located in a con­trol area. 
603.3.2.4 Installation. Tanks and piping systems shall be installed and separated from other uses in accor­dance with Section 915 and Chapter 13, both of the California Mechanical Code, as applicable. 
Exception: Protected above-ground tanks comply­ing with Section 5704.2.9.7 shall not be required to be separated from surrounding areas. 
603.3.2.5 Tanks in basements. Tanks in basements shall be located not more than two stories below grade plane. 
603.3.3 Underground storage of fuel oil. The storage of fuel oil in underground storage tanks shall comply with NFPA 31. 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 

603.4 Portable unvented heaters. Portable unvented fuel­fired heating equipment shall be prohibited in occupancies in Groups A, E, I, R-1, R-2, R-2.1, R-3, R-3.1 and R-4. 
> 	Exception: Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall be allowed in accordance with Section 603.4.2. 
603.4.1 Prohibited locations. Unvented fuel-fired heating equipment shall not be located in, or obtain combustion air from, any of the following rooms or spaces: sleeping rooms, bathrooms, toilet rooms or storage closets. 
603.4.2 Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances. Portable gas-fired heating appliances located outdoors shall be in accordance with Sections 603.4.2.1 through 
603.4.2.3.4. 
603.4.2.1 Location. Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall be located in accordance with Sections 
603.4.2.1.1 through 603.4.2.1.4. 
603.4.2.1.1 Prohibited locations. The storage or use of portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances is prohibited in any of the following locations: 
1. 	
Inside of any occupancy when connected to the fuel gas container. 

2. 	
Inside of tents, canopies and membrane struc­tures. 

3. 	
On exterior balconies. 


Exception: As allowed in Section 6.19 of NFPA58. 
603.4.2.1.2 Clearance to buildings. Portable out­door gas-fired heating appliances shall be located at least 5 feet (1524 mm) from buildings. 
603.4.2.1.3 Clearance to combustible materials. Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall not be located beneath, or closer than 5 feet (1524 mm) to combustible decorations and combustible overhangs, awnings, sunshades or similar combusti­ble attachments to buildings. 
603.4.2.1.4 Proximity to exits. Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall not be located within 5 feet (1524 mm) of exits or exit discharges. 
603.4.2.2 Installation and operation. Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall be installed and oper­ated in accordance with Sections 603.4.2.2.1 through 
603.4.2.2.4. 
603.4.2.2.1 Listing and approval. Only listed and approved portable outdoor gas-fired heating appli­ances utilizing a fuel gas container that is integral to the appliance shall be used. 
603.4.2.2.2 Installation and maintenance. Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 
603.4.2.2.3 Tip-over switch. Portable outdoor gas­fired heating appliances shall be equipped with a tilt or tip-over switch that automatically shuts off the flow of gas if the appliance is tilted more than 15 degrees (0.26 rad) from the vertical. 
603.4.2.2.4 Guard against contact. The heating element or combustion chamber of portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall be permanently guarded so as to prevent accidental contact by per­sons or material. 
603.4.2.3 Gas containers. Fuel gas containers for por­table outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall comply with Sections 603.4.2.3.1 through 603.4.2.3.4. 
603.4.2.3.1 Approved containers. Only approved DOTn or ASME gas containers shall be used. 
603.4.2.3.2 Container replacement. Replacement of fuel gas containers in portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall not be conducted while the public is present. 
603.4.2.3.3 Container capacity. The maximum individual capacity of gas containers used in con­nection with portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances shall not exceed 20 pounds (9 kg). 
603.4.2.3.4 Indoor storage prohibited. Gas con­tainers shall not be stored inside of buildings except in accordance with Section 6109.9. 

603.5 Heating appliances. Heating appliances shall be listed and shall comply with Sections 603.5.1 and 603.5.2. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.17(a) and (b)] Guards for Heating Appliances. 
Every heating appliance in any occupancy governed by Cali­fornia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations which does not have protective features incorporated in its design, shall be provided with guards that will provide pro­tection against ignition of clothing and other combustible material. 
(a) 
Appliances employing open flame radiated heat shall have fixed and substantially constructed metallic guards located not less than 10 inches from the radiating flame and the guard members shall be spaced not more than 2 inches apart. 

(b) 
Cabinet type appliances that are not provided with an inner combustion chamber and an air circulating space between the combustion chamber and the outer shell, shall have fixed and substantially constructed metallic guards located not less than 3 inches from the shell and spaced not more than 2 inches apart. 


603.5.1 Guard against contact. The heating element or combustion chamber shall be permanently guarded so as to prevent accidental contact by persons or material. 
603.5.2 Heating appliance installation and mainte­nance. Heating appliances shall be installed and main­tained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, the California Building Code, the California Mechanical Code and the California Electrical Code. 
603.6 Chimneys and appliances. Chimneys, incinerators, smokestacks or similar devices for conveying smoke or hot gases to the outer air and the stoves, furnaces, fireboxes or 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
boilers to which such devices are connected, shall be main­tained so as not to create a fire hazard. 
603.6.1 Masonry chimneys. Masonry chimneys that, upon inspection, are found to be without a flue liner and that have open mortar joints which will permit smoke or gases to be discharged into the building, or which are cracked as to be dangerous, shall be repaired or relined with a listed chimney liner system installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions or a flue lining system installed in accordance with the require­ments of the California Building Code and appropriate for the intended class of chimney service. 
603.6.2 Metal chimneys. Metal chimneys which are cor­roded or improperly supported shall be repaired or replaced. 
603.6.3 Decorative shrouds. Decorative shrouds installed at the termination of factory-built chimneys shall be removed except where such shrouds are listed and labeled for use with the specific factory-built chimney system and are installed in accordance with the chimney manufac­turer's installation instructions. 
603.6.4 Factory-built chimneys. Existing factory-built chimneys that are damaged, corroded or improperly sup­ported shall be repaired or replaced. 
603.6.5 Connectors. Existing chimney and vent connec­tors that are damaged, corroded or improperly supported shall be repaired or replaced. 
603.7 Discontinuing operation of unsafe heating appli­ances. The fire code official is authorized to order that mea­sures be taken to prevent the operation of any existing stove, oven, furnace, incinerator, boiler or any other heat-producing device or appliance found to be defective or in violation of code requirements for existing appliances after giving notice to this effect to any person, owner, firm or agent or operator in charge of the same. The fire code official is authorized to take measures to prevent the operation of any device or appli­ance without notice when inspection shows the existence of an immediate fire hazard or when imperiling human life. The defective device shall remain withdrawn from service until all necessary repairs or alterations have been made. 
603.7.1 Unauthorized operation. It shall be a violation of this code for any person, user, firm or agent to continue the utilization of any device or appliance (the operation of which has been discontinued or ordered discontinued in accordance with Section 603.7) unless written authority to resume operation is given by the fire code official. Removing or breaking the means by which operation of the device is prevented shall be a violation of this code. 
603.8 Incinerators. Commercial, industrial and residential­type incinerators and chimneys shall be constructed in accor­dance with the California Building Code and the California Mechanical Code. Unless other approved means are pro­vided for the prompt disposal of rubbish, an approved incin­erator shall be provided and maintained for the disposal of combustible waste. Incinerators shall be constructed, located, and maintained in such manner that waste material can be safely burned at any hour ofthe day, where local ordi­nances permit. Fuel-fired and garbage burning incinerators shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with NFPA 82-2009 Incinerators, Waste and Linen Handling Sys­tems and Equipment or U.L. 791-2006 Standard for Residen­tial Incinerators, whichever is applicable. 
603.8.1 Residential incinerators. Residential incinerators shall be of an approved type. 
603.8.2 Spark arrestor. Incinerators shall be equipped with an effective means for arresting sparks. 
603.8.3 Restrictions. Where the fire code official deter­mines that burning in incinerators located within 500 feet (152m) of mountainous, brush or grass-covered areas will create an undue fire hazard because of atmospheric condi­tions, such burning shall be prohibited. 
603.8.4 Time of burning. Burning shall take place only during approved hours. 
603.8.5 Discontinuance. The fire code official is autho­rized to require incinerator use to be discontinued immedi­ately if the fire code official determines that smoke emissions are offensive to occupants of surrounding prop­erty or if the use of incinerators is determined by the fire code official to constitute a hazardous condition. 
603.9 Gas meters. Above-ground gas meters, regulators and piping subject to damage shall be protected by a barrier com­plying with Section 312 or otherwise protected in an approved manner. 
SECTION 604 
EMERGENCY AND STANDBY POWER SYSTEMS 

604.1 Installation. Emergency and standby power systems required by this code or the California Building Code shall be installed in accordance with this code, NFP A 110 and NFP A 
111. Existing installations shall be maintained in accordance with the original approval. 
604.1.1 Stationary generators. Stationary emergency and standby power generators required by this code shall be listed in accordance with UL 2200. 
604.2 Where required. Emergency and standby power sys­tems shall be provided where required by Sections 604.2.1 through 604.2.18.4. 
604.2.1 Group A occupancies. Emergency power shall be provided for emergency voice/alarm communication sys­tems in Group A occupancies in accordance with Section 
907.2.1.1. 
604.2.2 Smoke control systems. Standby power shall be provided for smoke control systems in accordance with Section 909.11. 
604.2.3 Exit signs. Emergency power shall be provided for exit signs in accordance with Section 1011.6.3. 
604.2.4 Means of egress illumination. Emergency power shall be provided for means of egress illumination in accordance with Section 1006.3. 
604.2.5 Accessible means of egress elevators. Standby power shall be provided for elevators that are part of an accessible means of egress in accordance with Section 1007.4. 
604.2.6 Accessible means of egress platform lifts. Standby power in accordance with this section or ASME A18.1 shall be provided for platform lifts that are part of an accessible means of egress in accordance with Section 1007.5. 

604.2.7 Horizontal sliding doors. Standby power shall be provided for horizontal sliding doors in accordance with Section 1008.1.4.3. 
604.2.8 Semiconductor fabrication facilities. Emer­gency power shall be provided for semiconductor fabrica­tion facilities in accordance with Section 2703.15. 
604.2.9 Membrane structures. Emergency power shall be provided for exit signs in temporary tents and mem­brane structures in accordance with Section 3103.12.6.1. Standby power shall be provided for auxiliary inflation systems in permanent membrane structures in accordance with the California Building Code. 
604.2.10 Hazardous materials. Emergency or standby power shall be provided in occupancies with hazardous materials in accordance with Sections 5004.7 and 5005.1.5. 
604.2.11 Highly toxic and toxic materials. Emergency power shall be provided for occupancies with highly toxic or toxic materials in accordance with Sections 6004.2.2.8 and 6004.3.4.2. 
604.2.12 Organic peroxides. Standby power shall be pro­vided for occupancies with organic peroxides in accor­dance with Section 6204.1.11. 
604.2.13 Covered and open mall buildings. Covered mall buildings exceeding 50,000 square feet (4645 m2) and open mall buildings exceeding 50,000 square feet ( 4645 m2) within the established perimeter line shall be provided with standby power systems that are capable of operating the emergency voice/alarm communication system. 
604.2.14 High-rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. 
Standby power, light and emergency systems in high-rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall comply with the requirements of Sections 604.2.14.1 through 604.2.14.3. 
604.2.14.1 Standby power. A standby power system shall be provided. Where the standby system is a gener­ator set inside a building, the system shall be located in a separate room enclosed with 2-hour fire barriers con­structed in accordance with Section 707 of the Califor­nia Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Build­ing Code, or both. System supervision with manual start and transfer features shall be provided at the fire command center. 
604.2.14.1.1 Fuel supply. An on-premises fuel sup­ply, sufficient for not less than 6-hour full-demand 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 
operation of the system, shall be provided. The mini­mum required fuel supply shall be maintained at all times. 
< 
604.2.14.1.2 Capacity. The standby system shall have a capacity and rating that supplies all equip­ment required to be operational at the same time. The generating capacity is not required to be sized to operate all of the connected electrical equipment simultaneously. 
604.2.14.1.3 Connected facilities. Power and light­ing facilities for the fire command center and eleva­tors specified in Sections 403.4.8.2 and 403.6 of the California Building Code, as applicable, shall be transferable to the standby source. Standby power shall be provided for at least one elevator to serve all floors and be transferable to any elevator. 
604.2.14.2 Separate circuits and luminaires. Separate lighting circuits and luminaires shall be required to pro­vide sufficient light with an intensity of not less than 1 footcandle (11lux) measured at floor level in all means of egress corridors, stairways, smokeproof enclosures, elevator cars and lobbies, and other areas that are clearly a part of the escape route. 
604.2.14.2.1 Other circuits. Circuits supplying lighting for the fire command center and mechanical equipment rooms shall be transferable to the standby source. 
604.2.14.3 Emergency systems. An emergency power 
system shall be provided for exit signs, exit illumina­
tion as required by Chapter 10, electrically powered fire 
pumps required to maintain pressure, and elevator car 
lighting are classified as emergency systems and shall 
operate within 10 seconds of failure of the normal 
power supply and shall be capable of being transferred 
to the standby source. 

Exception: Exit sign, exit and means of egress illu­
mination are permitted to be powered by a standby 
source in buildings of Group F and S occupancies. 

604.2.15 Underground buildings. Emergency and standby power systems in underground buildings covered in Chapter 4 of the California Building Code shall comply with Sections 604.2.15.1 and 604.2.15.2. 
604.2.15.1 Standby power. A standby power system complying with this section and the California Electri­cal Code shall be provided for standby power loads as < specified in Section 604.2.15.1.1. 
[B] 604.2.15.1.1 Standby power loads. The follow­ing loads are classified as standby power loads: 
1. 	
Smoke control system. 

2. 	
Ventilation and automatic fire detection equipment for smokeproof enclosures. 

3. 	
Fire pumps. 

4. 	
Standby power shall be provided for elevators in accordance with Section 3003 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. 



604.2.15.1.2 Pickup time. The standby power sys­tem shall pick up its connected loads within 60 sec­onds of failure of the normal power supply. 

604.2.15.2 Emergency power. An emergency power 
> 	system complying with this code and the California Electrical Code shall be provided for emergency power loads as specified in Section 604.2.15.2.1. 
[B] 604.2.15.2.1 Emergency power loads. The fol­lowing loads are classified as emergency power loads: 
1. 	
Emergency voice/alarm communication sys­tems. 

2. 	
Fire alarm systems. 

3. 	
Automatic fire detection systems. 

4. 	
Elevator car lighting. 

5. 	
Means of egress lighting and exit sign illumi­nation as required by Chapter 10. 



604.2.16 Group 1-3 occupancies. Power-operated sliding doors or power-operated locks for swinging doors in Group I-3 occupancies shall be operable by a manual release mechanism at the door, and either emergency power or a remote mechanical operating release shall be provided. 
Exception: Emergency power is not required in facili­ties where provisions for remote locking and unlocking of occupied rooms in Occupancy Condition 4 are not required as set forth in the California Building Code. 
604.2.17 Airport traffic control towers. A standby power system shall be provided in airport traffic control towers more than 65 feet (19 812 mm) in height. Power shall be provided to the following equipment: 
1. 	
Pressurization equipment, mechanical equipment and lighting. 

2. 	
Elevator operating equipment. 

3. 	
Fire alarm and smoke detection systems. 


604.2.18 Elevators. In buildings and structures where standby power is required or furnished to operate an eleva­tor, the operation shall be in accordance with Sections 
604.2.18.1 through 604.2.18.4. 
604.2.18.1 Manual transfer. Standby power shall be manually transferable to all elevators in each bank. 
604.2.18.2 One elevator. Where only one elevator is installed, the elevator shall automatically transfer to standby power within 60 seconds after failure of nor­mal power. 
604.2.18.3 Two or more elevators. Where two or more elevators are controlled by a common operating system, all elevators shall automatically transfer to standby power within 60 seconds after failure of nor­mal power where the standby power source is of suffi­cient capacity to operate all elevators at the same time. Where the standby power source is not of sufficient capacity to operate all elevators at the same time, all elevators shall transfer to standby power in sequence, return to the designated landing and disconnect from the standby power source. After all elevators have been returned to the designated level, at least one elevator shall remain operable from the standby power source. 
604.2.18.4 Machine room ventilation. Where standby power is connected to elevators, the machine room ven­tilation or air conditioning shall be connected to the standby power source. 
604.3 Maintenance. Emergency and standby power systems shall be maintained in accordance with NFP A 110 and NFP A 111 such that the system is capable of supplying service within the time specified for the type and duration required. 
604.3.1 Schedule. Inspection, testing and maintenance of emergency and standby power systems shall be in accor­dance with an approved schedule established upon com­pletion and approval of the system installation. 
604.3.2 Written record. Written records of the inspec­tion, testing and maintenance of emergency and standby power systems shall include the date of service, name of the servicing technician, a summary of conditions noted and a detailed description of any conditions requiring cor­rection and what corrective action was taken. Such records shall be kept on the premises served by the emergency or standby power system and be available for inspection by the fire code official. 
604.3.3 Switch maintenance. Emergency and standby power system transfer switches shall be included in the inspection, testing and maintenance schedule required by Section 604.3.1. Transfer switches shall be maintained free from accumulated dust and dirt. Inspection shall include examination of the transfer switch contacts for evi­dence of deterioration. When evidence of contact deterio­ration is detected, the contacts shall be replaced in accordance with the transfer switch manufacturer's instructions. 
604.4 Operational inspection and testing. Emergency power systems, including all appurtenant components shall be inspected and tested under load in accordance with NFP A 110 and NFPA 111. 
Exception: Where the emergency power system is used for standby power or peak load shaving, such use shall be recorded and shall be allowed to be substituted for sched­uled testing of the generator set, provided that appropriate records are maintained. 
604.4.1 Transfer switch test. The test of the transfer switch shall consist of electrically operating the transfer switch from the normal position to the alternate position and then return to the normal position. 
604.5 Emergency lighting equipment. Emergency lighting shall be inspected and tested in accordance with Sections 
604.5.1 through 604.5.2.1. 
604.5.1 Activation test. An activation test of the emer­gency lighting equipment shall be completed monthly. The activation test shall ensure the emergency lighting activates automatically upon normal electrical disconnect and stays sufficiently illuminated for a minimum of 30 seconds. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 
604.5.1.1 Activation test record. Records shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of three years and submitted to the fire code official upon request. The record shall include the location of the emergency lighting tested, whether the unit passed or failed, the date of the test, and the person completing the test. 
604.5.2 Power test. For battery-powered emergency light­ing, a power test of the emergency lighting equipment shall be completed annually. The power test shall operate the emergency lighting for a minimum of 90 minutes and shall remain sufficiently illuminated for the duration of the test. 
604.5.2.1 Power test record. Records shall be main­tained on the premises for a minimum of three years and submitted to the fire code official upon request. The record shall include the location of the emergency lighting tested, whether the unit passed or failed, the date of the test, and the person completing the test. 

604.6 Supervision of maintenance and testing. Routine maintenance, inspection and operational testing shall be over­seen by a properly instructed individual. 
SECTION 605 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, WIRING AND HAZARDS 
605.1 Abatement of electrical hazards. Identified electrical hazards shall be abated. Identified hazardous electrical condi­tions in permanent wiring shall be brought to the attention of the responsible code official. Electrical wiring, devices, appliances and other equipment that is modified or damaged and constitutes an electrical shock or fire hazard shall not be used. 
605.2 Illumination. Illumination shall be provided for ser­vice equipment areas, motor control centers and electrical panel boards. 
605.3 Working space and clearance. A working space of not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm) in height shall be pro­vided in front of electrical service equipment. Where the elec­trical service equipment is wider than 30 inches (762 mm), the working space shall not be less than the width of the equipment. No storage of any materials shall be located within the designated working space. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Where other dimensions are required or allowed by 

> 
the California Electrical Code. 
2. 	Access openings into attics or under-floor areas which provide a minimum clear opening of 22 inches (559 mm) by 30 inches (762 mm). 
605.3.1 Labeling. Doors into electrical control panel rooms shall be marked with a plainly visible and legible sign stating ELECTRICAL ROOM or similar approved wording. The disconnecting means for each service, feeder or branch circuit originating on a switchboard or panel­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
board shall be legibly and durably marked to indicate its purpose unless such purpose is clearly evident. 

605.4 Multiplug adapters. Multiplug adapters, such as cube adapters, unfused plug strips or any other device not comply­ing with the California Electrical Code shall be prohibited. 
<
605.4.1 Power tap design. Relocatable power taps shall be of the polarized or grounded type, equipped with over­current protection, and shall be listed in accordance with UL 1363. 
605.4.2 Power supply. Relocatable power taps shall be directly connected to a permanently installed receptacle. 
605.4.3 Installation. Relocatable power tap cords shall not extend through walls, ceilings, floors, under doors or floor coverings, or be subject to environmental or physical damage. 

605.5 Extension cords. Extension cords and flexible cords shall not be a substitute for permanent wiring. Extension cords and flexible cords shall not be affixed to structures, extended through walls, ceilings or floors, or under doors or floor coverings, nor shall such cords be subject to environ­mental damage or physical impact. Extension cords shall be used only with portable appliances. 
605.5.1 Power supply. Extension cords shall be plugged directly into an approved receptacle, power tap or multi­plug adapter and, except for approved multiplug extension cords, shall serve only one portable appliance. 
605.5.2 Ampacity. The ampacity of the extension cords shall not be less than the rated capacity of the portable appliance supplied by the cord. 
605.5.3 Maintenance. Extension cords shall be main­tained in good condition without splices, deterioration or damage. 
605.5.4 Grounding. Extension cords shall be grounded when serving grounded portable appliances. 

605.6 Unapproved conditions. Open junction boxes and open-wiring splices shall be prohibited. Approved covers shall be provided for all switch and electrical outlet boxes. 
605.7 Appliances. Electrical appliances and fixtures shall be tested and listed in published reports of inspected electrical equipment by an approved agency and installed and main­tained in accordance with all instructions included as part of such listing. 
605.8 Electrical motors. Electrical motors shall be main­tained free from excessive accumulations of oil, dirt, waste and debris. 
605.9 Temporary wiring. Temporary wiring for electrical power and lighting installations is allowed for a period not to exceed 90 days. Temporary wiring methods shall meet the applicable provisions of the California Electrical Code. < 
Exception: Temporary wiring for electrical power and lighting installations is allowed during periods of con­struction, remodeling, repair or demolition of buildings, structures, equipment or similar activities. 
605.9.1 Attachment to structures. Temporary wmng attached to a structure shall be attached in an approved manner. 
605.10 Portable, electric space heaters. Where not prohib­ited by other sections of this code, portable, electric space heaters shall be permitted to be used in all occupancies other than Group I-2 and in accordance with Sections 605.10.1 through 605.10.4. 
Exception: The use of portable, electric space heaters in which the heating element cannot exceed a temperature of 212°F (100°C) shall be permitted in nonsleeping staff and employee areas in Group I-2 occupancies. 
605.10.1 Listed and labeled. Only listed and labeled por­table, electric space heaters shall be used. 
605.10.2 Power supply. Portable, electric space heaters shall be plugged directly into an approved receptacle. 
605.10.3 Extension cords. Portable, electric space heaters shall not be plugged into extension cords. 
605.10.4 Prohibited areas. Portable, electric space heat­ers shall not be operated within 3 feet (914 mm) of any combustible materials. Portable, electric space heaters shall be operated only in locations for which they are listed. 
605.11 Solar photovoltaic power systems. Solar photovol­taic power systems shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tions 605.11.1 through 605.11.4, the California Building 
> Code and the California Electrical Code. 
Exception: Detached, nonhabitable Group U structures including, but not limited to, parking shade structures, car­ports, solar trellises and similar structures shall not be sub­ject to the requirements of this section. 
605.11.1 Marking. Marking is required on interior and exterior direct-current (DC) conduit, enclosures, race­ways, cable assemblies, junction boxes, combiner boxes and disconnects. 
605.11.1.1 Materials. The materials used for marking shall be reflective, weather resistant and suitable for the environment. Marking as required in Sections 
605 .11.1.2 through 605 .11.1.4 shall have all letters cap­italized with a minimum height of 3inch (9.5 mm) 
/8 

white on red background. 
605.11.1.2 Marking content. The marking shall con­tain the words "WARNING: PHOTOVOLT AIC POWER SOURCE." 
605.11.1.3 Main service disconnect. The marking shall be placed adjacent to the main service disconnect in a location clearly visible from the location where the disconnect is operated. 
605.11.1.4 Location of marking. Marking shall be placed on interior and exterior DC conduit, raceways, enclosures and cable assemblies every 10 feet (3048 mm), within 1 foot (305 mm) of turns or bends and within 1 foot (305 mm) above and below penetrations of roof/ceiling assemblies, walls or barriers. 
605.11.2 Locations of DC conductors. Conduit, wiring systems, and raceways for photovoltaic circuits shall be located as close as possible to the ridge or hip or valley and from the hip or valley as directly as possible to an out­side wall to reduce trip hazards and maximize ventilation opportunities. Conduit runs between sub arrays and to DC combiner boxes shall be installed in a manner that mini­mizes the total amount of conduit on the roof by taking the shortest path from the array to the DC combiner box. The DC combiner boxes shall be located such that conduit runs are minimized in the pathways between arrays. DC wiring shall be installed in metallic conduit or raceways when located within enclosed spaces in a building. Conduit shall run along the bottom of load bearing members. 
605.11.3 Access and pathways. Roof access, pathways, and spacing requirements shall be provided in accordance with Sections 605.11.3.1 through 605.11.3.3.3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Residential structures shall be designed so that each photovoltaic array is no greater than 150 feet (45 720 mm) by 150 feet (45 720 mm) in either axis. 

2. 	
Panels/modules shall be permitted to be located up to the roof ridge where an alternative ventila­tion method approved by the fire chief has been provided or where the fire chief has determined vertical ventilation techniques will not be employed. 


605.11.3.1 Roof access points. Roof access points shall be located in areas that do not require the place­ment of ground ladders over openings such as windows or doors, and located at strong points of building con­struction in locations where the access point does not conflict with overhead obstructions such as tree limbs, wires, or signs. 
605.11.3.2 Residential systems for one-and two­family dwellings. Access to residential systems for one-and two-family dwellings shall be provided in accordance with Sections 605.11.3 .2.1 through 
605.11.3.2.4. 
605.11.3.2.1 Residential buildings with hip roof layouts. Panels/modules installed on residential buildings with hip roof layouts shall be located in a manner that provides a 3-foot-wide (914 mm) clear access pathway from the eave to the ridge on each roof slope where panels/modules are located. The access pathway shall be located at a structurally strong location on the building capable of support­ing the live load of fire fighters accessing the roof. 
Exception: These requirements shall not apply to roofs with slopes of two units vertical in 12 units horizontal (2: 12) or less. 

605.11.3.2.2 Residential buildings with a single ridge. Panels/modules installed on residential build­ings with a single ridge shall be located in a manner that provides two, 3-foot-wide (914 mm) access 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
pathways from the eave to the ridge on each roof slope where panels/modules are located. 
Exception: This requirement shall not apply to roofs with slopes of two units vertical in 12 units horizontal (2: 12) or less. 
605.11.3.2.3 Residential buildings with roof hips and valleys. Panels/modules installed on residential buildings with roof hips and valleys shall be located no closer than 18 inches (457 mm) to a hip or a val­ley where panels/modules are to be placed on both sides of a hip or valley. Where panels are to be located on only one side of a hip or valley that is of equal length, the panels shall be permitted to be placed directly adjacent to the hip or valley. 
Exception: These requirements shall not apply to roofs with slopes of two units vertical in 12 units horizontal (2: 12) or less. 
605.11.3.2.4 Residential building smoke ventila­tion. Panels/modules installed on residential build­ings shall be located no higher than 3 feet (914 mm) below the ridge in order to allow for fire department smoke ventilation operations. 
605.11.3.3 Other than residential buildings. Access to systems for occupancies other than one-and two­family dwellings shall be provided in accordance with Sections 605.11.3.3.1 through 605.11.3.3.3. 
Exception: Where it is determined by the fire code official that the roof configuration is similar to that of a one-or two-family dwelling, the residential access and ventilation requirements in Sections 
605.11.3.2.1 through 605.11.3.2.4 shall be permitted to be used. 
605.11.3.3.1 Access. There shall be a minimum 6­foot-wide (1829 mm) clear perimeter around the edges of the roof. 
Exception: Where either axis of the building is 250 feet (76 200 mm) or less, there shall be a minimum 4-foot-wide (1290 mm) clear perimeter around the edges of the roof. 
605.11.3.3.2 Pathways. The solar installation shall be designed to provide designated pathways. The pathways shall meet the following requirements: 
1. 	
The pathway shall be over areas capable of supporting the live load of fire fighters accessing the roof. 

2. 
The centerline axis pathways shall be pro­vided in both axes of the roof. Centerline axis pathways shall run where the roof structure is capable of supporting the live load of fire fighters accessing the roof. 

3. 	
Shall be a straight line not less than 4 feet (1290 mm) clear to skylights or ventilation hatches. 

4. 
Shall be 	a straight line not less than 4 feet (1290 mm) clear to roof standpipes. 


BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 
5. 	Shall provide not less than 4 feet (1290 mm) clear around roof access hatch with at least one not less than 4 feet (1290 mm) clear path­way to parapet or roof edge. 
605.11.3.3.3 Smoke ventilation. The solar installa­tion shall be designed to meet the following require­ments: 
1. 	
Arrays shall be no greater than 150 feet (45 720 mm) by 150 feet (45 720 mm) in distance in either axis in order to create opportunities for fire department smoke ventilation opera­tions. 

2. 	
Smoke ventilation options between array sec­tions shall be one of the following: 


2.1. A pathway 8 feet (243 8 mm) or greater in width. 
2.2. A 4-foot (1290 mm) or greater in width pathway and bordering roof skylights or smoke and heat vents. 
2.3. A 4-foot (1290 mm) or greater in width pathway and bordering 4-foot by 8-foot (1290 mm by 2438 mm) "venting cutouts" every 20 feet (6096 mm) on alternating sides of the pathway. 

605.11.4 Ground-mounted photovoltaic arrays. Ground-mounted photovoltaic arrays shall comply with Sections 605.11 through 605.11.2 and this section. Set­back requirements shall not apply to ground-mounted, free-standing photovoltaic arrays. A clear, brush-free area of 10 feet (3048 mm) shall be required for ground­mounted photovoltaic arrays. 
SECTION 606 
MECHANICAL REFRIGERATION 


[M] 
606.1 Scope. Refrigeration systems shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

[M] 
606.2 Refrigerants. The use and purity of new, recov­ered and reclaimed refrigerants shall be in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

[M] 
606.3 Refrigerant classification. Refrigerants shall be classified in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

[M] 
606.4 Change in refrigerant type. A change in the type of refrigerant in a refrigeration system shall be in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 


606.5 Access. Refrigeration systems having a refrigerant cir­cuit containing more than 220 pounds (100 kg) of Group A1 or 30 pounds (14 kg) of any other group refrigerant shall be accessible to the fire department at all times as required by the fire code official. 
606.6 Testing of equipment. Refrigeration equipment and systems having a refrigerant circuit containing more than 220 pounds (100 kg) of Group A1 or 30 pounds (14 kg) of any 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
other group refrigerant shall be subject to periodic testing in accordance with Section 606.6.1. A written record of required testing shall be maintained on the premises. Tests of emer­gency devices or systems required by this chapter shall be conducted by persons trained and qualified in refrigeration systems. 
606.6.1 Periodic testing. The following emergency devices or systems shall be periodically tested in accor­dance with the manufacturer's instructions and as required by the fire code official. 
1. 	
Treatment and flaring systems. 

2. 	
Valves and appurtenances necessary to the operation of emergency refrigeration control boxes. 

3. 	
Fans and associated equipment intended to operate emergency ventilation systems. 

4. 
Detection and alarm systems. 


606.7 Emergency signs. Refrigeration units or systems hav­ing a refrigerant circuit containing more than 220 pounds (100 kg) of Group A1 or 30 pounds (14 kg) of any other group refrigerant shall be provided with approved emergency signs, charts and labels in accordance with NFP A 704. Haz­ard signs shall be in accordance with the California Mechani­cal Code for the classification of refrigerants listed therein. 
606.8 Refrigerant detector. Machinery rooms shall contain a refrigerant detector with an audible and visual alarm. The detector, or a sampling tube that draws air to the detector, shall be located in an area where refrigerant from a leak will concentrate. The alarm shall be actuated at a value not greater than the corresponding TL V-TWA values shown in the Cali­fornia Mechanical Code for the refrigerant classification. Detectors and alarms shall be placed in approved locations. The detector shall transmit a signal to an approved location. 
606.9 Remote controls. Where flammable refrigerants are used and compliance with Section 1106 of the California Mechanical Code is required, remote control of the mechani­
cal equipment and appliances located in the machinery room as required by Sections 606.9.1 and 606.9.2 shall be provided at an approved location immediately outside the machinery room and adjacent to its principal entrance. 
.. 
606.9.1 Refrigeration system emergency shutoff. A clearly identified switch of the break-glass type or with an approved tamper-resistant cover shall provide off-only control of refrigerant compressors, refrigerant pumps and normally closed automatic refrigerant valves located in the machinery room. Additionally, this equipment shall be automatically shut off whenever the refrigerant vapor con­centration in the machinery room exceeds the vapor detec­tor's upper detection limit or 25 percent of the LEL, whichever is lower. 
606.9.2 Ventilation system. A clearly identified switch of the break-glass type shall provide on-only control of the machinery room ventilation fans. 
606.10 Emergency pressure control system. Refrigeration systems containing more than 6.6 pounds (3 kg) of flamma­ble, toxic or highly toxic refrigerant or ammonia shall be pro­vided with an emergency pressure control system in accordance with Sections 606.10.1 and 606.1 0.2. 
606.10.1 Automatic crossover valves. Each high-and intermediate-pressure zone in a refrigeration system shall be provided with a single automatic valve providing a crossover connection to a lower pressure zone. Automatic crossover valves shall comply with Sections 606.10.1.1 through 606.10.1.3. 
606.10.1.1 Overpressure limit set point. Automatic crossover valves shall be arranged to automatically relieve excess system pressure to a lower pressure zone if the pressure in a high-or intermediate-pressure zone rises to within 90 percent of the set point for emergency pressure relief devices. 
606.10.1.2 Manual operation. When required by the fire code official, automatic crossover valves shall be capable of manual operation. 
606.10.1.3 System design pressure. Refrigeration sys­tem zones that are connected to a higher pressure zone by an automatic crossover valve shall be designed to safely contain the maximum pressure that can be achieved by interconnection of the two zones. 
606.10.2 Automatic emergency stop. An automatic emergency stop feature shall be provided in accordance with Sections 606.10.2.1 and 606.10.2.2. 
606.10.2.1 Operation of an automatic crossover valve. Operation of an automatic crossover valve shall cause all compressors on the affected system to imme­diately stop. Dedicated pressure-sensing devices located immediately adjacent to crossover valves shall be permitted as a means for determining operation of a valve. To ensure that the automatic crossover valve sys­tem provides a redundant means of stopping compres­sors in an overpressure condition, high-pressure cutout sensors associated with compressors shall not be used as a basis for determining operation of a crossover valve. 
606.10.2.2 Overpressure in low-pressure zone. The lowest pressure zone in a refrigeration system shall be provided with a dedicated means of determining a rise in system pressure to within 90 percent of the set point for emergency pressure relief devices. Activation of the overpressure sensing device shall cause all compressors on the affected system to immediately stop. 
606.11 Storage, use and handling. Flammable and combus­tible materials shall not be stored in machinery rooms for refrigeration systems having a refrigerant circuit containing more than 220 pounds (100 kg) of Group A1 or 30 pounds (14 kg) of any other group refrigerant. Storage, use or han­dling of extra refrigerant or refrigerant oils shall be as required by Chapters 50, 53, 55 and 57 . 
Exception: This provision shall not apply to spare parts, tools and incidental materials necessary for the safe and proper operation and maintenance of the system. 
606.12 Termination of relief devices. Pressure relief devices, fusible plugs and purge systems for refrigeration sys­tems containing more than 6.6 pounds (3 kg) of flammable, 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 

toxic or highly toxic refrigerants shall be provided with an approved discharge system as required by Sections 606.12.1, 
606.12.2 and 606.12.3. Discharge piping and devices con­nected to the discharge side of a fusible plug or rupture mem­ber shall have provisions to prevent plugging the pipe in the event of the fusible plug or rupture member functions. 
606.12.1 Flammable refrigerants. Systems containing flammable refrigerants having a density equal to or greater than the density of air shall discharge vapor to the atmo­sphere only through an approved treatment system in accordance with Section 606.12.4 or a flaring system in accordance with Section 606.12.5. Systems containing flammable refrigerants having a density less than the den­sity of air shall be permitted to discharge vapor to the atmosphere provided that the point of discharge is located outside of the structure at not less than 15 feet (4572 mm) above the adjoining grade level and not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) from any window, ventilation opening or exit. 
606.12.2 Toxic and highly toxic refrigerants. Systems containing toxic or highly toxic refrigerants shall dis­charge vapor to the atmosphere only through an approved treatment system in accordance with Section 606.12.4 or a flaring system in accordance with Section 606.12.5. 
606.12.3 Ammonia refrigerant. Systems containing ammonia refrigerant shall discharge vapor to the atmo­sphere through an approved treatment system in accor­dance with Section 606.12.4, a flaring system in accordance with Section 606.12.5, or through an approved ammonia diffusion system in accordance with Section 606.12.6, or by other approved means. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Ammonia/water absorption systems containing less than 22 pounds ( 10 kg) of ammonia and for which the ammonia circuit is located entirely out­doors. 

2. 	
When the fire code official determines, on review of an engineering analysis prepared in accor­dance with Section 104.7.2, that a fire, health or environmental hazard would not result from dis­charging ammonia directly to the atmosphere. 


606.12.4 Treatment systems. Treatment systems shall be designed to reduce the allowable discharge concentration of the refrigerant gas to not more than 50 percent of the IDLH at the point of exhaust. Treatment systems shall be in accordance with Chapter 60. 

606.12.5 Flaring systems. Flaring systems for incinera­tion of flammable refrigerants shall be designed to inciner­ate the entire discharge. The products of refrigerant incineration shall not pose health or environmental haz­ards. Incineration shall be automatic upon initiation of dis­charge, shall be designed to prevent blowback and shall not expose structures or materials to threat of fire. Standby fuel, such as LP gas, and standby power shall have the capacity to operate for one and one-half the required time for complete incineration of refrigerant in the system. 
606.12.6 Ammonia diffusion systems. Ammonia diffu­sion systems shall include a tank containing 1 gallon of 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
water for each pound of ammonia ( 4 L of water for each 1 kg of ammonia) that will be released in 1 hour from the largest relief device connected to the discharge pipe. The water shall be prevented from freezing. The discharge pipe from the pressure relief device shall distribute ammonia in the bottom of the tank, but no lower than 33 feet (10 058 mm) below the maximum liquid level. The tank shall con­tain the volume of water and ammonia without overflow­ing. 
606.13 Discharge location for refrigeration machinery room ventilation. Exhaust from mechanical ventilation sys­tems serving refrigeration machinery rooms containing flam­mable, toxic or highly toxic refrigerants, other than ammonia, capable of exceeding 25 percent of the LFL or 50 percent of the IDLH shall be equipped with approved treatment systems to reduce the discharge concentrations to those values or lower. 
606.14 Notification of refrigerant discharges. The fire code official shall be notified immediately when a discharge becomes reportable under state, federal or local regulations in accordance with Section 5003.3.1. 
606.15 Records. A written record shall be kept of refrigerant quantities brought into and removed from the premises. Such records shall be available to the fire code official. 
606.16 Electrical equipment. Where refrigerants of Groups A2, A3, B2 and B3, as defined in the California Mechanical Code, are used, refrigeration machinery rooms shall conform to the Class I, Division 2 hazardous location classification requirements ofthe California Electrical Code. 
< 

Exception: Ammonia machinery rooms that are provided with ventilation in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
SECTION 607 
ELEVATOR OPERATION, 
MAINTENANCE AND FIRE SERVICE KEYS 


607.1 Emergency operation. Existing elevators with a travel distance of 25 feet (7620 mm) or more shall comply with the requirements in Chapter 11. New elevators shall be provided with Phase I emergency recall operation and Phase II emer­gency in-car operation in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 6, < Elevator Safety Orders. 
[B] 607.2 Emergency signs. An approved pictorial sign of a standardized design shall be posted adjacent to each elevator call station on all floors instructing occupants to use the exit stairways and not to use the elevators in case of fire. The sign shall read: IN FIRE EMERGENCY, DO NOT USE ELEVA­TOR. USE EXIT STAIRS. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The emergency sign shall not be required for eleva­tors that are part of an accessible means of egress complying with Section 1007.4. 

2. 	
The emergency sign shall not be required for eleva­tors that are used for occupant self-evacuation in 



accordance with Section 3008 of the California Building Code. 

607.3 Fire service access elevator lobbies. Where fire ser­vice access elevators are required by Section 3007 of the Cal­ifornia Building Code, fire service access elevator lobbies shall be maintained free of storage and furniture. 
607.4 Elevator key location. Keys for the elevator car doors and fire-fighter service keys shall be kept in an approved location for immediate use by the fire department. 
607.5 Standardized fire service elevator keys. Buildings with elevators equipped with Phase I emergency recall, Phase II emergency in-car operation, or a fire service access eleva­tor shall be equipped to operate with a standardized fire ser­vice elevator key approved by the fire code official. 
Exception: The owner shall be permitted to place the building's nonstandardized fire service elevator keys in a key box installed in accordance with Section 506.1.2. 
607.5.1 Requirements for standardized fire service ele­vator keys. Standardized fire service elevator keys shall comply with all of the following: 
1. 	
All fire service elevator keys within the jurisdiction shall be uniform and specific for the jurisdiction. Keys shall be cut to a uniform key code. 

2. 	
Fire service elevator keys shall be of a patent-pro­tected design to prevent unauthorized duplication. 

3. 	
Fire service elevator keys shall be factory restricted by the manufacturer to prevent the unauthorized dis­tribution of key blanks. No uncut key blanks shall be permitted to leave the factory. 

4. 
Fire service elevator keys subject to these rules shall be engraved with the words "DO NOT DUPLI­CATE." 


607.5.2 Access to standardized fire service keys. Access to standardized fire service elevator keys shall be restricted to the following: 
1. 	
Elevator owners or their authorized agents. 

2. 	
Elevator contractors. 

3. 	
Elevator inspectors of the jurisdiction. 

4. 
Fire code officials of the jurisdiction. 

5. 	
The fire department and other emergency response agencies designated by the fire code official. 


607.5.3 Duplication or distribution of keys. No person shall duplicate a standardized fire service elevator key or issue, give, or sell a duplicated key unless in accordance with this code. 
607.5.4 Responsibility to provide keys. The building owner shall provide up to three standardized fire service elevator keys where required by the fire code official, upon installation of a standardized fire service key switch or switches in the building. 
607.6 Shunt trip. Where elevator hoistways or elevator machine rooms containing elevator control equipment are protected with automatic sprinklers, a means installed in accordance with NFPA 72, Section 21.4, Elevator Shutdown, shall be provided to automatically disconnect the main line power supply to the affected elevator prior to the application of water. This means shall not be self-resetting. The activa­tion ofsprinklers outside the hoistway or machine room shall not disconnect the main line power supply. 
SECTION 608 
STATIONARY STORAGE BATTERY SYSTEMS 

608.1 Scope. Stationary storage battery systems having an electrolyte capacity of more than 50 gallons (189 L) for flooded lead-acid, nickel cadmium (Ni-Cd) and valve-regu­lated lead-acid (VRLA), or more than 1,000 pounds (454 kg) for lithium-ion and lithium metal polymer, used for facility standby power, emergency power or uninterruptible power supplies shall comply with this section and Table 608.1. 
608.2 Safety caps. Safety caps for stationary storage battery systems shall comply with Sections 608.2.1 and 608.2.2. 
608.2.1 Nonrecombinant batteries. Vented lead-acid, nickel-cadmium or other types of nonrecombinant batter­ies shall be provided with safety venting caps. 
608.2.2 Recombinant batteries. VRLA batteries shall be equipped with self-resealing flame-arresting safety vents. 
608.3 Thermal runaway. VRLA and lithium metal polymer battery systems shall be provided with a listed device or other approved method to preclude, detect and control thermal run­away. 
608.4 Room design and construction. Enclosure of station­ary battery systems shall comply with the California Building Code. Battery systems shall be allowed to be in the same room with the equipment they suppmt. 
608.4.1 Separate rooms. When stationary batteries are installed in a separate equipment room accessible only to authorized personnel, they shall be permitted to be installed on an open rack for ease of maintenance. 
608.4.2 Occupied work centers. When a system of VRLA, lithium-ion, or other type of sealed, nonventing batteries is situated in an occupied work center, it shall be allowed to be housed in a noncombustible cabinet or other enclosure to prevent access by unauthorized personnel. 

608.4.3 Cabinets. When stationary batteries are contained in cabinets in occupied work centers, the cabinet enclo­sures shall be located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the equipment that they support. 
608.5 Spill control and neutralization. An approved method and materials for the control and neutralization of a spill of electrolyte shall be provided in areas containing lead­acid, nickel-cadmium or other types of batteries with free­flowing liquid electrolyte. For purposes of this paragraph, a "spill" is defined as any unintentional release of electrolyte. 
Exception: VRLA, lithium-ion, lithium metal polymer or other types of sealed batteries with immobilized electro­lyte shall not require spill control. 
BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS 

TABLE 608.1 BATTERY REQUIREMENTS 

REQUIREMENT  NONRECOMBINANT BATTERIES  RECOMBINANT BATTERIES  OTHER BATTERIES  
Vented (Flooded) Lead Acid Batteries  Vented (Flooded) Nickel-Cadmium (Ni-Cd) Batteries  Valve Regulated Lead-Acid (VRLA) Cells  Lithium-lon Cells  Lithium Metal Cells  
Safety caps  Venting caps (608.2.1)  Venting caps (608.2.1)  Self-resealing flame-arresting caps (608.2.2)  No caps  No caps  
Thermal runaway management  Not required  Not required  Required (608.3)  Not required  Required (608.3)  
Spill control  Required (608.5)  Required (608.5)  Not required  Not required  Not required  
Neutralization  Required (608.5.1)  Required (608.5.1)  Required (608.5.2)  Not required  Not required  
Ventilation  Required (608.6.1; 608.6.2)  Required (608.6.1; 608.6.2)  Required (608.6.1; 608.6.2)  Not required  Not required  
Signage  Required (608.7)  Required (608.7)  Required (608.7)  Required (608.7)  Required (608.7)  
Seismic protection  Required (608.8)  Required (608.8)  Required (608.8)  Required (608.8)  Required (608.8)  
Smoke detection  Required (608.9)  Required (608.9)  Required (608.9)  Required (608.9)  Required (608.9)  

608.5.1 Nonrecombinant battery neutralization. For battery systems containing lead acid, nickel cadmium or other types of batteries with free-flowing electrolyte, the method and materials shall be capable of neutralizing a spill of the total capacity from the largest cell or block to a pH between 5.0 and 9.0. 
608.5.2 Recombinant battery neutralization. For VRLA or other types of batteries with immobilized electrolyte, the method and material shall be capable of neutralizing a spill of 3.0 percent of the capacity of the largest cell or block in the room to a pH between 5.0 and 9.0. 
Exception: Lithium-ion and lithium metal polymer batteries shall not require neutralization. 

608.6 Ventilation. Ventilation of stationary storage battery systems shall comply with Sections 608.6.1 and 608.6.2. 
608.6.1 Room ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided in accordance with the California Mechanical Code and the following: 
1. 	
For flooded lead-acid, flooded Ni-Cd and VRLA batteries, the ventilation system shall be designed to limit the maximum concentration of hydrogen to 1.0 percent of the total volume of the room; or 

2. 
Continuous ventilation shall be provided at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot (1 ft3/minJfe) [0.0051 m3/s · m2] of floor area of the room. 


Exception: Lithium-ion and lithium metal poly­mer batteries shall not require additional ventila­tion beyond that which would normally be required for human occupancy of the space in 
accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
608.6.2 Cabinet ventilation. When VRLA batteries are installed inside a cabinet, the cabinet shall be approved for use in occupied spaces and shall be mechanically or natu­rally vented by one of the following methods: 
1. 	
The cabinet ventilation shall limit the maximum concentration of hydrogen to 1 percent of the total volume of the cabinet during the worst-case event of simultaneous "boost" charging of all the batteries in the cabinet; or 

2. 
When calculations are not available to substantiate the ventilation rate, continuous ventilation shall be provided at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot [1 ft3/minJfe or 0.0051 m3/(s · m2)] of floor area covered by the cabinet. The room in which the cabinet is installed shall also be venti­lated as required in Section 608.6.1. 


608.6.3 Supervision. Mechanical ventilation systems where required by Sections 608.6.1 and 608.6.2 shall be supervised by an approved central, proprietary or remote station service or shall initiate an audible and visual signal at a constantly attended on-site location. 

608.7 Signage. Signs shall comply with Sections 608.7.1 and 
608.7.2. 
608.7.1 Equipment room and building signage. Doors into electrical equipment rooms or buildings containing stationary battery systems shall be provided with approved signs. The signs shall state that: 
1. The room contains energized battery systems. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	
The room contains energized electrical circuits. 

3. 	
The battery electrolyte solutions, where present, are cotTosive liquids. 


608.7.2 Cabinet signage. Cabinets shall have exterior labels that identify the manufacturer and model number of the system and electrical rating (voltage and current) of the contained battery system. There shall be signs within the cabinet that indicate the relevant electrical, chemical and fire hazards. 
608.8 Seismic protection. The battery systems shall be seis­mically braced in accordance with the California Building Code. 
608.9 Smoke detection. An approved automatic smoke detection system shall be installed in accordance with Section 
907.2 in rooms containing stationary battery systems. 
SECTION 609 
COMMERCIAL KITCHEN HOODS 


[M] 
609.1 General. Commercial kitchen exhaust hoods shall comply with the requirements of the California Mechanical Code. 

[M] 
609.2 Where required. A Type I hood shall be installed at or above all commercial cooking appliances and domestic cooking appliances used for commercial purposes that pro­duce grease vapors. 


609.3 Operations and maintenance. Commercial cooking systems shall be operated and maintained in accordance with Sections 609.3.1 through 609.3.4. 
609.3.1 Ventilation system. The ventilation system in connection with hoods shall be operated at the required rate of air movement, and classified grease filters shall be in place when equipment under a kitchen grease hood is used. 
609.3.2 Grease extractors. Where grease extractors are installed, they shall be operated when the commercial-type cooking equipment is used. 
609.3.3 Cleaning. Hoods, grease-removal devices, fans, ducts and other appurtenances shall be cleaned at intervals as required by Sections 609.3.3.1 through 609.3.3.3. 
609.3.3.1 Inspection. Hoods, grease-removal devices, fans, ducts and other appurtenances shall be inspected at intervals specified in Table 609.3.3.1 or as approved by the fire code official. Inspections shall be completed by qualified individuals. 
609.3.3.2 Grease accumulation. If during the inspec­tion it is found that hoods, grease-removal devices, fans, ducts or other appurtenances have an accumula­tion of grease, such components shall be cleaned. 
609.3.3.3 Records. Records for inspections shall state the individual and company petforming the inspection, a description of the inspection and when the inspection 
took place. Records for cleanings shall state the indi­vidual and company petforming the cleaning and when the cleaning took place. Such records shall be com­pleted after each inspection or cleaning, maintained on the premises for a minimum of three years and be cop­ied to the fire code official upon request. 
609.3.4 Extinguishing system service. Automatic fire­extinguishing systems protecting commercial cooking systems shall be serviced as required in Section 
904.11.6. 
TABLE 609.3.3.1 COMMERCIAL COOKING SYSTEM INSPECTION FREQUENCY 
TYPE OF COOKING OPERATIONS  FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION  
High-volume cooking operations such as 24­hour cooking, charbroiling or wok cooking  3 months  
Low-volume cooking operations such as places of religious worship, seasonal busi­nesses and senior centers  12 months  
Cooking operations utilizing solid fuel-burn­ing cooking appliances  1 month  
All other cooking operations  6 months  

SECTION 610 
COMMERCIAL KITCHEN 
COOKING OIL STORAGE 


610.1 General. Storage of cooking oil (grease) in commer­cial cooking operations shall comply with Chapter 57. Sys­tems used to store cooking oils in larger than 60-gallon (227 L) above-ground tanks shall also comply with Sections 610.2 through 610.5. For purposes of this section, cooking oil shall be classified as a Class IIIB liquid unless otherwise deter­mined by testing. 
610.2 Storage tanks. Cooking oil storage tanks shall be listed in accordance with UL 142 or UL 80, and shall be installed in accordance with Section 5704 and the tank manu­facturer's instructions. 
610.3 Other storage components. Cooking oil storage sys­tem components including, but not limited to, piping, connec­tions, fittings, valves, tubing and other related components used for the transfer of cooking oil from the cooking appli­ance to the storage tank, and from the storage tank to the dis­charge point, shall be installed in accordance with Section 5703.6. 
610.4 Tank venting. Normal and emergency venting for cooking oil storage tanks shall terminate outside the building as specified in Sections 5704.2.7.3 and 5704.2.7.4. 
610.5 Electrical equipment. Electrical equipment used for the operation and heating of the cooking oil storage system shall be listed and comply with NFP A 70. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 7 -FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Californza Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisiOns that are found m the Californza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the cuJTent CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 7 
FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION 
SECTION 701 
GENERAL 


701.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall specify the requirements for and the maintenance of fire-resistance-rated construction. New buildings shall comply with the California Building Code. 
701.2 Unsafe conditions. Where any components in this chapter are not maintained and do not function as intended or do not have the fire resistance required by the code under which the building was constructed, remodeled or altered, such component(s) or portion thereof shall be deemed an unsafe condition, in accordance with Section 110.1.1. Com­ponents or portions thereof determined to be unsafe shall be repaired or replaced to conform to that code under which the building was constructed, remodeled, altered or this chapter, as deemed appropriate by the fire code official. 
Where the extent of the conditions of components is such that any building, structure or portion thereof presents an imminent danger to the occupants of the building, structure or portion thereof, the fire code official shall act in accordance with Section 110.2. 
SECTION 702 
DEFINITIONS 


702.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
DRAFTSTOP. 
FIRE-RESISTANT JOINT SYSTEM. 
FIREBLOCKING. 
SECTION 703 
FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION 


703.1 Maintenance. The required fire-resistance rating of fire-resistance-rated construction (including walls, firestops, shaft enclosures, partitions, smoke barriers, floors, fire-resis­tive coatings and sprayed fire-resistant materials applied to structural members and fire-resistant joint systems) shall be maintained. Such elements shall be visually inspected by the owner annually and properly repaired, restored or replaced when damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Where con­cealed, such elements shall not be required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the concealed space is accessi­ble by the removal or movement of a panel, access door, ceil­ing tile or similar movable entry to the space. Openings made therein for the passage of pipes, electrical conduit, wires, ducts, air transfer openings and holes made for any reason shall be protected with approved methods capable of resisting the passage of smoke and fire. Openings through fire-resis­tance-rated assemblies shall be protected by self-or auto­matic-closing doors of approved construction meeting the fire protection requirements for the assembly. 
703.1.1 Fireblocking and draftstopping. Required fire­blocking and draftstopping in combustible concealed spaces shall be maintained to provide continuity and integ­rity of the construction. 
703.1.2 Smoke barriers and smoke partitions. Required smoke barriers and smoke partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of smoke. All openings protected with approved smoke barrier doors or smoke dampers shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 105. 
703.1.3 Fire walls, fire barriers and fire partitions. Required fire walls, fire barriers and fire partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of fire. All openings 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
protected with approved doors or fire dampers shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 80. 
703.2 Opening protectives. Opening protectives shall be maintained in an operative condition in accordance with NFPA 80. Where allowed by the fire code official, the appli­cation of field-applied labels associated with the maintenance of opening protectives shall follow the requirements of the approved third-party certification organization accredited for listing the opening protective. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or obstructed, or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible links shall be replaced promptly when­ever fused or damaged. Fire door assemblies shall not be modified. 
703.2.1 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, a sign shall be permanently displayed on or near each fire door in letters not less than 1 inch (25 mm) high to read as follows: 
1. 	
For doors designed to be kept normally open: FIRE DOOR-DO NOT BLOCK. 

2. 	
For doors designed to be kept normally closed: FIRE DOOR-KEEP CLOSED. 


703.2.2 Hold-open devices and closers. Hold-open devices and automatic door closers, where provided, shall be maintained. During the period that such device is out of service for repairs, the door it operates shall remain in the closed position. 
703.2.3 Door operation. Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open position and latch automatically. The door closer shall exert enough force to close and latch the door from any partially open position. 
703.3 Ceilings. The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other decorative materials from acoustical ceiling sys­tems that are part of a fire-resistance-rated floor/ceiling or roof/ceiling assembly, shall be prohibited. 
703.4 Testing. Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall be inspected and tested annually to confirm proper operation and full closure. A written record shall be maintained and be available to the fire code official. 
SECTION 704 
FLOOR OPENINGS AND SHAFTS 


704.1 Enclosure. Interior vertical shafts including, but not limited to, stairways, elevator hoistways, service and utility shafts, that connect two or more stories of a building shall be enclosed or protected as required in Chapter 11. New floor openings in existing buildings shall comply with the Califor­nia Building Code. 
704.2 Opening protectives. When openings are required to be protected, opening protectives shall be maintained self­closing or automatic-closing by smoke detection. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices are permit­ted if the fusible link rating does not exceed 135°F (5TC). 
SECTION 705 
EXTERIOR WALLS 


705.1 Exterior graphics on exterior walls ofhigh-rise build­ings. Where installed on the exterior walls ofhigh-rise build­ings, exterior graphics, both permanent and temporary, greater than 100 square feet in area or greater than 10 feet in either dimension shall comply with the following conditions subject to the review and approval of the fire code official and building official: 
1. 	
The materials used for graphics installed at a height greater than 40 feet above the grade plane shall be noncombustible materials or shall have a flame spread index not greater than 25 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723. 

2. 	
The method of attachment and mounting of the graph­ics to the exterior wall shall be such that the graphics are securely attached. 

3. 	
The graphics shall not interfere with the active or pas­sive ventilation required for the building and the required smoke control systems in the building. 

4. 	
The graphics shall not impair the functions of any fire or life safety systems in the building. 


CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 8 -INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

> 


* The California Code ofRegulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 8 

INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 

SECTION 801 
GENERAL 


801.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern inte­rior finish, interior trim, furniture, furnishings, decorative materials and decorative vegetation in buildings. Existing buildings shall comply with Sections 803 through 808. New buildings shall comply with Sections 804 through 808, and Section 803 of the California Building Code. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, 
§1172] Purpose. 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8 have been prepared and adopted for the purpose of estab­lishing minimum standards for the prevention offire and for the protection of life and property against fire and panic through the use of flame-retardant chemicals, fabrics and materials. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, 
§1173] Scope. 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8 shall govern the manufacture, sale and application of flame-retardant chemicals used in connection with fabrics or materials required to be treated and maintained in a flame­retardant condition as provided in Sections 13115 or 13119 of the Health and Safety Code. These rules and regulations shall also apply to fabrics or materials inherently nonflam­mable and, they shall also establish minimum fire-resistive standards for such fabrics or materials. 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chap­ter 8 shall also establish minimum standards and specific procedures for the approval of flame-retardant chemicals, flame retardant materials and flame retardant applicator concerns. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I §1174] Basis. ' 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8 are based upon the presumption of fact that fabrics and similar materials commonly known to be flammable increase, or may cause the increase of, the hazard or menace offire; that proper and adequate flame-retardant treatment through the use ofcertain chemicals is possible whereby the danger to life and property from fire and panic can be materially reduced; and, that there do exist certain fabrics and materi­als which by nature are nonflammable. 
SECTION 802 
DEFINITIONS 


802.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
FLAME SPREAD. 
FLAME SPREAD INDEX. 
INTERIOR FLOOR-WALL BASE. 
SITE-FABRICATED STRETCH SYSTEM. 
SMOKE-DEVELOPED INDEX. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, § 119I] Approved. 
"Approved" means approved by the State Fire Marshal. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §1196] Flame-retardant Chemical. 
"Flame-Retardant Chemical," as used herein, means any chemical, chemical compound or chemical mixture which when properly applied to a fabric or material will render such fabric or material incapable of supporting combustion to the extent that it will successfully withstand the tests and meet the specifications promulgated by the State Fire Mar­shal. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, §120I] Nonflammable Material. 
"Nonflammable Material," as used herein, means a fabric or material which is inherently flame-resistant to the extent that it will meet the requirements of the fire resistance test herein prescribed, but shall not include materials which must be chemically treated or processed after manufacture to make them flame-resistant. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, §1202] Place ofPublic Assemblage. 
"Place of Public Assemblage," as used herein, means any occupancy mentioned in Sections 13115 or 13119 of the Health and Safety Code. 
SECTION 803 
INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH 
AND TRIM IN EXISTING BUILDINGS 


803.1 General. The provisions of this section shall limit the allowable fire performance and smoke development of inte­rior wall and ceiling finishes and interior wall and ceiling trim in existing buildings based on location and occupancy classification. Interior wall and ceiling finishes shall be clas­sified in accordance with Section 803 of the California Build­ing Code. Such materials shall be grouped in accordance with ASTM E 84, as indicated in Section 803.1.1, or in accordance with NFPA 286, as indicated in Section 803.1.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Materials having a thickness less than 0.036 inch 
(0.9 mm) applied directly to the surface of walls and ceilings. 
2. 	Exposed portions of structural members complying with the requirements of buildings of Type IV con­struction in accordance with the California Building 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Code shall not be subject to interior finish require­ments. 
803.1.1 Classification in accordance with ASTM E 84. Interior finish materials shall be grouped in the following classes in accordance with their flame spread and smoke­developed index when tested in accordance with ASTM E 
84. 
Class A: flame spread index 0-25; smoke-developed index 0-450. 
Class B: flame spread index 26-75; smoke-developed index 0-450. 
Class C: flame spread index 76-200; smoke-developed index 0-450. 
803.1.2 Classification in accordance with NFPA 286. Interior wall or ceiling finishes shall be allowed to be tested in accordance with NFP A 286. Finishes tested in accordance with NFP A 286 shall comply with Section 
803.1.2.1. Interior wall and ceiling finish materials tested in accordance with NFP A 286 and meeting the acceptance criteria of Section 803.1.2.1 shall be allowed to be used where a Class A classification in accordance with ASTM E 84 is required. 
803.1.2.1 Acceptance criteria for NFPA 286. The interior finish shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
During the 40 kW exposure, flames shall not spread to the ceiling. 

2. 	
The flame shall not spread to the outer extremity of the sample on any wall or ceiling. 

3. 	
Flashover, as defined in NFPA 286, shall not occur. 

4. 	
The peak heat release rate throughout the test shall not exceed 800 kW. 

5. 	
The total smoke released throughout the test shall not exceed 1,000 m2• 


803.2 Stability. Interior finish materials regulated by this chapter shall be applied or otherwise fastened in such a man­ner that such materials will not readily become detached where subjected to room temperatures of 200°F (93°C) for not less than 30 minutes. 
803.3 Interior finish requirements based on occupancy. Interior wall and ceiling finish shall have a flame spread index not greater than that specified in Table 803.3 for the group and location designated. 
803.4 Fire-retardant coatings. The required flame spread or smoke-developed index of surfaces in existing buildings shall be allowed to be achieved by application of approved fire­retardant coatings, paints or solutions to surfaces having a f1ame spread index exceeding that allowed. Such applications shall comply with NFP A 703 and the required fire-retardant properties shall be maintained or renewed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 
803.5 Textiles. Where used as interior wall or ceiling finish materials, textiles, including materials having woven or non­woven, napped, tufted, looped or similar surface, shall com­ply with the requirements of this section .. 
803.5.1 Textile wall or ceiling coverings. Textile wall or ceiling coverings shall comply with one of the following: 
1. 	
The wall or ceiling covering shall have a Class A flame spread index in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723, and be protected by automatic sprinklers installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2; 

2. 	
The wall covering shall meet the criteria of Section 


803.5.1.1 or 803.5.1.2 when tested in the manner intended for use in accordance with NFPA 265 using the product-mounting system, including adhe­sive, of actual use; or 
3. 	The wall or ceiling covering shall meet the criteria of Section 803.1.2.1 when tested in accordance with NFPA 286 using the product-mounting system, including adhesive, of actual use. 
803.5.1.1 Method A test protocol. During the Method A protocol, flame shall not spread to the ceiling during the 40-kW exposure. During the 150-kW exposure, the textile wall covering shall comply with all of the fol­lowing: 
1. 	
Flame shall not spread to the outer extremity of the sample on the 8-foot by 12-foot (203 mm by 305 mm) wall. 

2. 
The specimen shall not burn to the outer extrem­ity of the 2-foot-wide (610 mm) samples mounted in the corner of the room. 

3. 	
Burning droplets deemed capable of igniting tex­tile wall coverings or that burn for 30 seconds or more shall not form. 

4. 
Flashover, 	as defined in NFP A 265, shall not occur. 

5. 
The 	maximum net instantaneous peak heat release rate, determined by subtracting the burner output from the maximum heat release rate, does not exceed 300 kW. 


803.5.1.2 Method B test protocol. During the Method B protocol, the textile wall covering or expanded vinyl wall covering shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
During the 40-kW exposure, flames shall not spread to the ceiling. 

2. 	
The f1ame shall not spread to the outer extremi­ties of the samples on the 8-foot by 12-foot (203 by 305 mm) walls. 

3. 	
Flashover, as defined in NFPA 265, shall not occur. 

4. 
For newly introduced wall and ceiling coverings, the total smoke released throughout the test shall not exceed 1,000 m2• 


803.5.2 Newly introduced textile wall and ceiling cover­ings. Newly introduced textile wall and ceiling coverings shall comply with one of the following: 
1. 	The wall or ceiling covering shall have a Class A flame spread index in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723, and be protected by automatic sprinklers 
> 

INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 	723, and be protected by automatic sprinklers installed 
903.3 .1.2. Test specimen preparation and mounting 	in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. Test 
shall be in accordance with ASTM E 2404. 	specimen preparation and mounting shall be in accor­dance with ASTM E 2404. 
2. 	The wall covering shall meet the criteria of Section 

803.5.1.2 when tested in the manner intended for use 2. The wall covering shall meet the criteria of Section in accordance with NFPA 265 using the product­803.5.1.2 when tested in the manner intended for use in mounting system (including adhesive) of actual use. accordance with NFPA 265 using the product-mount­
ing system (including adhesive) of actual use. 

3. 	The wall or ceiling covering shall meet the criteria of Section 803.1.2.1 when tested in accordance with 3. The wall or ceiling covering shall meet the criteria of NFP A 286 using the product-mounting system Section 803.1.2.1 when tested in accordance with (including adhesive) of actual use. NFPA 286 using the product-mounting system (includ­
ing adhesive) of actual use. 

803.6 Expanded vinyl wall or ceiling coverings. Expanded vinyl wall or ceiling coverings shall comply with one of the 803.7 Foam plastic materials. Foam plastic materials shall following: not be used as interior wall and ceiling finish unless specifi­
cally allowed by Section 803.7.1 or 803.7.2. Foam plastic 
1. 	The wall or ceiling covering shall have a Class A flame materials shall not be used as interior trim unless specifically spread index in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL allowed by Section 803.7.3. 

TABLE 803.3 
INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH REQUIREMENTS BY OCCUPANCYk 


GROUP  SPRINKLERED1  NONSPRINKLERED  
Interior exit stairways and interior exit ramps and exit passageways"· •  Corridors and enclosure for exit access stairways and exit access ramps  Rooms and enclosed spaces•  Interior exit stairways and interior exit ramps and exit passageways"· •  Corridors and enclosure for exit access stairways and exit access ramps  Rooms and enclosed spaces•  
A-1 &A-2  B  B  c  A  Ad  Be  
A-31 , A-4, A-5  B  B  c  A  Ad  c  
B, E, M, R-1, R-4  B  c  c  A  B  c  
F  c  c  c  B  c  c  
H  B  B  cg  A  A  B  
1-2, I-2.1  B  B  Bh,i  A  A  B  
1-3  A  Ai  B  NP  NP  NP  
1-4  B  B  Bh,i  A  A  B  
R-2  c  c  c  B  B  c  
R-2.1  B  c  c  A  B  B  
R-3, R-3.1  c  c  c  c  c  c  
s  c  c  c  B  B  c  
u  No Restrictions  No Restrictions  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2• 
NP=Nor Permitted [SFM] 
a. 	Class C interior finish materials shall be allowed for wainscoting or paneling of not more than 1,000 square feet of applied surface area in the grade lobby where applied directly to a noncombustible base or over furring strips applied to a noncombustible base and fireblocked as required by Section 803.11 of the 
California Building Code. 
b. 	
In exit enclosures of buildings less than three stories in height of other than Group I-3, Class B interior finish for nonsprinklered buildings and Class C for sprinklered buildings shall be permitted. 

c. 	
Requirements for rooms and enclosed spaces shall be based upon spaces enclosed by partitions. Where a fire-resistance rating is required for structural elements, the enclosing partitions shall extend from the floor to the ceiling. Partitions that do not comply with this shall be considered as enclosing spaces and the rooms or spaces on both sides shall be considered as one. In determining the applicable requirements for rooms and enclosed spaces, the specific occupancy thereof shall be the goveming factor regardless of the group classification of the building or structure. 

d. 
Lobby areas in Group A-1, A-2 and A-3 occupancies shall not be less than Class B materials. 

e. 
Class C interior finish materials shall be allowed in Group A occupancies with an occupant load of 300 persons or less. 

f. 	
In places of religious worship, wood used for omamental purposes, trusses, paneling or chancel furnishing shall be allowed. 

g. 
Class B material is required where the building exceeds two stories. 

h. 
Class C interior finish materials shall be allowed in administrative spaces. 

i. 	
Class C interior finish materials shall be allowed in rooms with a capacity of four persons or less. 

j. 	
Class B materials shall be allowed as wainscoting extending not more than 48 inches above the finished floor in corridors. 

k. 
Finish materials as provided for in other sections of this code. 

I. 	
Applies when the vertical exits, exit passageways, corridors or rooms and spaces are protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
803.7.1 Combustibility characteristics. Foam plastic materials shall be allowed on the basis of fire tests that substantiate their combustibility characteristics for the use intended under actual fire conditions, as indicated in Sec­tion 2603.10 of the California Building Code. This section shall apply both to exposed foam plastics and to foam plastics used in conjunction with a textile or vinyl facing or cover. 
803.7.2 Thermal barrier. Foam plastic material shall be allowed if it is separated from the interior of the building by a thermal barrier in accordance with Section 2603.4 of the California Building Code. 
803.7.3 Trim. Foam plastic shall be allowed for trim in accordance with Section 804.2. 
803.8 High-density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropyl­ene (PP). Where high-density polyethylene or polypropylene is used as an interior finish it shall comply with Section 
803.1.2. 
803.9 Site-fabricated stretch systems. Where used as newly installed interior wall or interior ceiling finish materials, site­fabricated stretch systems containing all three components described in the definition in Section 802 shall be tested in the manner intended for use, and shall comply with the requirements of Section 803.1.1 or 803 .1.2. If the materials are tested in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723, speci­men preparation and mounting shall be in accordance with ASTME 2573. 
803.10 Unframed rigid combustible decorative material. Rigid combustible decorative material and assemblies of materials not more than 114 inch in thickness used for folding doors, room dividers, decorative screens and similar applica­tions, which do not create concealed spaces and which are installed with exposed edges, shall be flame resistant in accordance with SFM Standard 12-7-5 contained in Title 24, Part 12, California Referenced Standards Code. 
803.10.1 Framed rigid combustible decorative material. Rigid combustible decorative material and assemblies of materials not more than 114 inch in thickness used for fold­ing doors, room dividers, decorative screens and similar applications, and which are installed with all edges pro­tected, shall conform to SFM Standard 12-7-5 contained in Title 24, Part 12, California Referenced Standards Code. 
SECTION 804 
INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING TRIM 
AND INTERIOR FLOOR FINISH IN 
NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS 

804.1 Interior trim. Matelial, other than foam plastic, used as interior trim in new and existing buildings shall have mini­mum Class B flame spread and 450 smoke-developed index in Group /-3 and for all other occupancies Class C flame spread and smoke-developed indices, when tested in accor­dance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723, as described in Section 
803.1.1. Combustible trim, excluding handrails and guard­rails, shall not exceed 10 percent of the specific wall or ceil­ing areas to which it is attached. 
804.1.1 Alternative testing. When the interior trim mate­rial has been tested as an interior finish in accordance with NFP A 286 and complies with the acceptance criteria in Section 803 .1.2.1, it shall not be required to be tested for flame spread index and smoke-developed index in accor­dance with ASTM E 84. 
804.2 Foam plastic. Foam plastic used as interior trim shall comply with Sections 804.2.1 through 804.2.4. 
804.2.1 Density. The minimum density of the interior trim shall be 20 pounds per cubic foot (320 kg/m3). 
804.2.2 Thickness. The maximum thickness of the inte­lior trim shall be 1 inch (12.7 mm) and the maximum 
/2 

width shall be 8 inches (203 mm). 
804.2.3 Area limitation. The interior trim shall not consti­tute more than 10 percent of the specific wall or ceiling area to which it is attached. 
804.2.4 Flame spread. The flame spread index shall not exceed 75 where tested in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723. The smoke-developed index shall not be limited. 
Exception: When the interior trim material has been tested as an interior finish in accordance with NFP A 286 and complies with the acceptance criteria in Sec­tion 803.1.2.1, it shall not be required to be tested for flame spread index in accordance with ASTM E 84 or UL 723. 
804.3 New interior floor finish. New interior floor finish and floor covering materials in new and existing buildings shall comply with Sections 804.3.1 through 804.3.3.2. 
Exception: Floor finishes and coverings of a traditional type, such as wood, vinyl, linoleum or terrazzo, and resil­ient floor covering materials that are not comprised of fibers. 
804.3.1 Classification. Interior floor finish and floor cov­ering materials required by Section 804.3.3.2 to be of Class I or II materials shall be classified in accordance with NFPA 253. The classification referred to herein cor­responds to the classifications determined by NFPA 253 as follows: Class I, 0.45 watts/cm2 or greater; Class II, 0.22 watts/cm2 or greater. 
804.3.2 Testing and identification. Interior floor finish and floor covering materials shall be tested by an approved agency in accordance with NFP A 253 and identified by a hang tag or other suitable method so as to identify the manufacturer or supplier and style, and shall indicate the interior floor finish or floor covering classification accord­ing to Section 804.3 .1. Carpet -type floor coverings shall be tested as proposed for use, including underlayment. Test reports confirming the information provided in the manufacturer's product identification shall be furnished to the fire code official upon request. 
804.3.3 Interior floor finish requirements. New interior floor coverings materials shall comply with Sections 
804.3.3.1 and 804.3.3.2, and interior floor finish materials shall comply with Section 804.3.1. 
804.3.3.1 Pill test. In all occupancies, new floor cover­ing materials shall comply with the requirements of the 
INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
DOC FF-1 "pill test" (CPSC 16 CFR Part 1630) or of ASTMD2859. 
804.3.3.2 Minimum critical radiant flux. In all occu­pancies, new interior floor finish and floor covering materials in enclosures for stairways and ramps, exit passageways, corridors and rooms or spaces not sepa­rated from corridors by full-height partitions extending from the floor to the underside of the ceiling shall with­stand a minimum critical radiant flux. The minimum critical radiant flux shall not be less than Class I in Groups I-1, 1-2 and I-3 and not less than Class II in Groups A, B, E, H, 1-4, M, R-1, R-2 and S. 
Exception: Where a building is equipped through­out with an automatic sprinkler system in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, Class II materials shall be permitted in any area where Class I materials are required and materials complying with DOC FF-1 "pill test" (CPSC 16 CFR Part 1630) or with ASTM D 2859 shall be permitted in any area where Class II materials are required. 

804.4 Interior floor-wall base. Interior floor-wall base that is 6 inches (152 mm) or less in height shall be tested in accordance with NFP A 253 and shall not be less than Class 
II. Where a Class I floor finish is required, the floor-wall base shall be Class I. The classification referred to herein corresponds to the classifications determined by NFP A 253 as follows: Class I, 0.45 watt/cm2 or greater; Class II, 0.22 watts/cm2 or greater. 
Exception: Interior trim materials that comply with Sec­tion 804.1. 

SECTION 805 
UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE AND MATTRESSES 
IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS 

805.1 Group I-1, board and care facilities. The require­ments in Sections 805.1.1 through 805.1.2 shall apply to board and care facilities classified in Group I -1. 
805.1.1 Upholstered furniture. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall meet the requirements of Sections 
805.1.1.1 through 805.1.1.3. 
805.1.1.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced upholstered furniture shall be shown to resist ignition by cigarettes as determined by tests conducted in accor­dance with one of the following: 
1. 	
Mocked-up composites of the upholstered furni­ture shall have a char length not exceeding 1.5 inches (38 mm) when tested in accordance with NFPA 261. 

2. 	
The components of the upholstered furniture shall meet the requirements for Class I when tested in accordance with NFPA 260. 


805.1.1.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1537 or Cali­fornia Technical Bulletin 133, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single uphol­stered furniture item shall not exceed 80 kW. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
2. 	The total energy released by the single uphol­stered furniture item during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 mega joules (MJ). 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
805.1.1.3 Identification. Upholstered furniture shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming com­pliance with the requirements of Sections 805.1.1.1 and 
805.1.1.2. 
805.1.2 Mattresses. Newly introduced mattresses shall meet the requirements of Sections 805 .1.2.1 through 
805.1.2.3. 
805.1.2.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced mattresses shall be shown to resist ignition by ciga­rettes as determined by tests conducted in accordance with DOC 16 CFR Part 1632 and shall have a char length not exceeding 2 inches (51 mm). 
805.1.2.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced mat­tresses shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1590 or California Technical Bulletin 129, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single mat­tress shall not exceed 100 kW. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
2. 	The total energy released by the single mattress during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces 
protected by an approved automatic sprinkler 
system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
805.1.2.3 Identification. Mattresses shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming compliance with the requirements of Sections 805.2.2.1 and 805.2.2.2. 

805.2 Group I-2, nursing homes and hospitals. The requirements in Sections 805.2.1 through 805.2.2 shall apply to nursing homes and hospitals classified in Group 1-2. 
805.2.1 Upholstered furniture. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall meet the requirements of Sections 
805.2.1.1 through 805.2.1.3. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
805.2.1.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced upholstered furniture shall be shown to resist ignition by cigarettes as determined by tests conducted in accor­dance with one of the following: (a) mocked-up com­posites of the upholstered furniture shall have a char length not exceeding 1.5 inches (38 mm) when tested in accordance with NFP A 261 or (b) the components of the upholstered furniture shall meet the requirements for Class I when tested in accordance with NFPA 260. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture belonging to the patients in sleeping rooms of nursing homes (Group I-2), provided that a smoke detector is installed in such rooms. Battery-powered, single-station smoke alarms shall be allowed. 
805.2.1.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1537 or Cali­fornia Technical Bulletin 133, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single uphol­stered furniture item shall not exceed 80 kW. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

2. 	The total energy released by the single uphol­stered furniture item during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

805.2.1.3 Identification. Upholstered furniture shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming com­pliance with the requirements of Sections 805.2.1.1 and 
805.2.1.2. 
805.2.2 Mattresses. Newly introduced mattresses shall meet the requirements of Sections 805.2.2.1 through 
805.2.2.3. 
805.2.2.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced mattresses shall be shown to resist ignition by ciga­rettes as determined by tests conducted in accordance with DOC 16 CFR Part 1632 and shall have a char length not exceeding 2 inches (51 mm). 
805.2.2.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced mat­tresses shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1590 or California Technical Bulletin 129, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single mat­tress shall not exceed 100 kW. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 

2. 	The total energy released by the single mattress during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 

805.2.2.3 Identification. Mattresses shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming compliance with the requirements of Sections 805.2.2.1 and 805.2.2.2. 
805.3 Group 1-3, detention and correction facilities. The requirements in Sections 805.3.1 through 805.3.2 shall apply to detention and correction facilities classified in Group I-3. 
805.3.1 Upholstered furniture. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall meet the requirements of Sections 
805.3.1.1 through 805.3.1.3 
805.3.1.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced upholstered furniture shall be shown to resist ignition by cigarettes as determined by tests conducted in accor­dance with one of the following: 
1. 	
Mocked-up composites of the upholstered furni­ture shall have a char length not exceeding 1.5 inches (38 mm) when tested in accordance with NFPA 261. 

2. 	
The components of the upholstered furniture shall meet the requirements for Class I when tested in accordance with NFPA 260. 


805.3.1.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1537, as fol­lows: 
1. 	
The peak rate of heat release for the single uphol­stered furniture item shall not exceed 80 kW. 

2. 	
The total energy released by the single uphol­stered furniture item during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 


805.3.1.3 Identification. Upholstered furniture shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming com­pliance with the requirements of Sections 805.3.1.1 and 
805.3.1.2. 
805.3.2 Mattresses. Newly introduced mattresses shall meet the requirements of Sections 805.3.2.1 through 
805.3.2.3. 
805.3.2.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced mattresses shall be shown to resist ignition by ciga­rettes as determined by tests conducted in accordance with DOC 16 CFR Part 1632 and shall have a char length not exceeding 2 inches (51 mm). 
805.3.2.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced mat­tresses shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1590 or California Technical Bulletin 129, as follows: 
1. 	
The peak rate of heat release for the single mat­tress shall not exceed 100 kW. 

2. 
The total energy released by the single mattress during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 


805.3.2.3 Identification. Mattresses shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming compliance with the requirements of Sections 805.3.2.1 and 805.3.2.2. 

805.4 Group R-2 college and university dormitories. The requirements of Sections 805.4.1 through 805.4.2.3 shall apply to college and university dormitories classified in Group R-2, including decks, porches and balconies. 
805.4.1 Upholstered furniture. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall meet the requirements of Sections 
805.4.1.1 through 805.4.1.3 
805.4.1.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced upholstered furniture shall be shown to resist ignition by cigarettes as determined by tests conducted in accor­dance with one of the following: 
1. 	Mocked-up composites of the upholstered furni­ture shall have a char length not exceeding 11 
/2 
inches (38 mm) when tested in accordance with NFPA 261. 
2. 	The components of the upholstered furniture shall meet the requirements for Class I when tested in accordance with NFP A 260. 
805.4.1.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced uphol­stered furniture shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1537 or Cali­fornia Technical Bulletin 133, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single uphol­stered furniture item shall not exceed 80 kW. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
2. The total energy released by the single uphol­stered furniture item during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 
Exception: Upholstered furniture in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
805.4.1.3 Identification. Upholstered furniture shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming com­pliance with the requirements of Sections 805.4.1.1 and 
805.4.1.2. 
805.4.2 Mattresses. Newly introduced mattresses shall meet the requirements of Sections 805.4.2.1 through 
805.4.2.3. 

INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
805.4.2.1 Ignition by cigarettes. Newly introduced mattresses shall be shown to resist ignition by ciga­rettes as determined by tests conducted in accordance with DOC 16 CFR Part 1632 and shall have a char length not exceeding 2 inches (51 mm). 
805.4.2.2 Heat release rate. Newly introduced mat­tresses shall have limited rates of heat release when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1590 or California Technical Bulletin 129, as follows: 
1. 	The peak rate of heat release for the single mat­tress shall not exceed 100 kW. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
2. 	The total energy released by the single mattress during the first 10 minutes of the test shall not exceed 25 MJ. 
Exception: Mattresses in rooms or spaces protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
805.4.2.3 Identification. Mattresses shall bear the label of an approved agency, confirming compliance with the requirements of Sections 805.4.2.1 and 805.4.2.2. 
SECTION 806 
DECORATIVE VEGETATION 
IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS 


806.1 Natural cut trees. Natural cut trees, where allowed by this section, shall have the trunk bottoms cut off at least 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) above the original cut and shall be placed in a support device complying with Section 806.1.2. 
806.1.1 Restricted occupancies. Natural cut trees shall be prohibited in Group A, E, 1-1, 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, M, R-1, R-2 and R-4 occupancies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Trees located in areas protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 shall not be prohibited in Groups A, E, M, R-1 and R-2. 

2. 	
Trees shall be allowed within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies. 



806.1.2 Support devices. The support device that holds the tree in an upright position shall be of a type that is sta­ble and that meets all of the following criteria: 
1. 	
The device shall hold the tree securely and be of adequate size to avoid tipping over of the tree. 

2. 	
The device shall be capable of containing a mini­mum two-day supply of water. 

3. 	
The water level, when full, shall cover the tree stem at least 2 inches (51 mm). The water level shall be 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
maintained above the fresh cut and checked at least once daily. 

806.1.3 Dryness. The tree shall be removed from the building whenever the needles or leaves fall off readily when a tree branch is shaken or if the needles are brittle and break when bent between the thumb and index finger. The tree shall be checked daily for dryness. 
806.2 Artificial vegetation. Artificial decorative vegetation shall meet the flame propagation performance criteria of Cal­ifornia Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Meeting the flame propagation performance criteria of California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 shall be documented and certified by the manufacturer in an approved manner. Alter­natively, the artificial decorative vegetation item shall be tested in accordance with NFPA 289, using the 20 kW igni­tion source, and shall have a maximum heat release rate of 100kW. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.08]. Decorative Materials. 
In every Group A, E, I, R-1, R-2, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 occu­pancy, all drapes, hangings, curtains, drops, and all other decorative material, including Christmas trees, that would tend to increase the fire and panic hazard shall be made from a nonflammable material, or shall be treated and maintained in a flame-retardant condition by means ofa flame-retardant solution or process approved by the State Fire Marshal, as set forth in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8. Exits, exit lights, fire alarm sending stations, wet standpipe hose cabinets and fire extinguisher locations shall not be concealed, in whole or in part, by any decorative material. 
Exceptions: 
(a) 
Cubical curtains and individual patient room win­dow curtains and drapes in Group I, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 occupancies. 

(b) 
Window curtains and drapes within dwelling units ofGroup R-1 and R-2 occupancies. 

(c) 
Christmas trees within dwelling units of Group R-1 and R-2 occupancies. 


806.3 Obstruction of means of egress. The required width of any portion of a means of egress shall not be obstructed by decorative vegetation. 
806.4 Open flame. Candles and open flames shall not be used on or near decorative vegetation. Natural cut trees shall be kept a distance from heat vents and any open flame or heat-producing devices at least equal to the height of the tree. 
806.5 Electrical fixtures and wiring. The use of unlisted electrical wiring and lighting on natural cut trees and artificial decorative vegetation shall be prohibited. The use of electri­cal wiring and lighting on artificial trees constmcted entirely of metal shall be prohibited. 
SECTION 807 
DECORATIVE MATERIALS OTHER 
THAN DECORATIVE VEGETATION IN 
NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS 

807.1 General requirements. In occupancies in Groups A, E, I and R-1, and dormitories in Group R-2, curtains, draper­ies, hangings and other decorative materials suspended from walls or ceilings shall meet the flame propagation perfor­mance criteria of NFPA 701 in accordance with Section 
806.2 or be noncombustible. Exceptions: 
1. 	
Curtains, draperies, hangings and other decorative materials suspended from walls of sleeping units and dwelling units in dormitories in Group R-2 pro­tected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1 and such materials are limited to not more than 50 per­cent of the aggregate area of walls. 

2. 	
Decorative materials, including, but not limited to, photographs and paintings in dormitories in Group R-2 where such materials are of limited quantities such that a hazard of fire development or spread is not present. 


In Groups I-1 and I-2, combustible decorative materials shall meet the flame propagation criteria of NFP A 701 unless the decorative materials, including, but not limited to, photo­graphs and paintings, are of such limited quantities that a haz­ard of fire development or spread is not present. In Group 1-3, combustible decorative materials are prohibited. 
Fixed or movable walls and partitions, paneling, wall pads and crash pads, applied structurally or for decoration, acousti­cal correction, surface insulation or other purposes, shall be considered interior finish if they cover 10 percent or more of the wall or of the ceiling area, and shall not be considered decorative materials or furnishings. 
In Group B and M occupancies, fabric partitions sus­pended from the ceiling and not supported by the floor shall meet the flame propagation performance criteria in accor­dance with Section 807.2 and NFPA 701 or shall be noncom­bustible. 
807.1.1 Noncombustible materials. The permissible amount of noncombustible decorative material shall not be limited. 
807.1.2 Combustible decorative materials. The permis­sible amount of decorative materials meeting the flame propagation performance criteria of NFPA 701 shall not exceed 10 percent of the specific wall or ceiling area to which it is attached. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	In auditoriums in Group A, the permissible amount of decorative material meeting the flame propagation performance criteria of NFP A 701 shall not exceed 75 percent of the aggregate wall area where the building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, and where the material is installed in accordance with Section 
803.4 of the California Building Code. 
2. 	The amount of fabric partitions suspended from the ceiling and not supported by the floor in Group B and M occupancies shall not be limited. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.08]. Decorative Materials. 
In every Group A, E, I, R-1, R-2, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 occu­pancy, all drapes, hangings, curtains, drops, and all other decorative material, including Christmas trees, that would tend to increase the fire and panic hazard shall be made from a nonflammable material, or shall be treated and maintained in a flame-retardant condition by means ofa flame-retardant solution or process approved by the State Fire Marshal, as set forth in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8. Exits, exit lights, fire alarm sending stations, wet standpipe hose cabinets and fire extinguisher locations shall not be concealed, in whole or in part, by any decorative material. 
Exceptions: 
(a) 
Cubical curtains and individual patient room win­dow curtains and drapes in Group 1, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 occupancies. 

(b) 
Window curtains and drapes within dwelling units ofGroup R-1 and R-2 occupancies. 

(c) 
Christmas trees within dwelling units of Group R-1 



and R-2 occupancies. [California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1273.1] Fabrics for Interior Use. 
Fabrics as described in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, 1272(c) intended for interior use shall be tested in their original condition only and shall meet the requirements for fire resistance outlined in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 1273.3. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1273.2] Fabrics for Exterior Use. 
Fabrics as described in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, 1272(c) intended for exterior use shall meet the requirements for fire resistance outlined in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, 1273.3, and, in addition, they shall meet the requirements for fire resistance outlined in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, 1237, both in their original state and after accelerated weathering. 
807.2 Acceptance criteria and reports. Where required to be flame resistant, decorative materials shall be tested by an approved agency and meet the flame propagation perfor­mance criteria of NFPA 701, or such materials shall be non­combustible. Reports of test results shall be prepared in 
INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
accordance with NFPA 701 and furnished to the fire code official upon request. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1321.1] Fabric and Material Certification. 
All concerns in whose name an approved flame-resistant fab­ric or material is registered shall issue approved certificates offlame resistance covering all such products sold for use in occupancies governed by the statutes. Copies shall be fur­nished to the buyer as well as the State Fire Marshal and the local fire authority of the customer's city. These certificates shall be delivered within 10 days after the product is shipped and shall be completely filled out and signed by an autho­rized representative ofthe concern. 
In addition to the required description on the reverse side of the certificate as to yardage or quantity, color and kind, notation should be made ofthe manufacturer's production or lot control number, the purchase order or invoice number, and, where possible, the ultimate location and use. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1324] Job Labeling. 
To every article that is treated and to every roll or package of registered approved fabric or material, a small label or tag shall be securely affixed, bearing the following information: 
(a) 
The Seal of Registration of the State Fire Marshal of California. 

(b) 
Name and registration number of the concern respon­sible for the job or production. 

(c) 
Name ofthe registered chemical used or the registered fabric or material. 

(d) 
Date the chemical was applied, or the fabric or mate­rial was produced. 

(e) 
The statement, "This article must be re-treated after washing or drycleaning by systems with soap and water added" (if treated with a "Type ll" chemical). 



This information may be stamped, printed or stenciled on the article ifso desired. 
Concerns which treat or manufacture yardage goods may print or stencil their name, or the name oftheir fabric if reg­istered, on the salvage (at least once every three yards) instead ofaffixing the label or tag as above. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1325] Labeling Required. 
No drape, hanging, curtain, drop or similar decorative mate­rial or exterior fabric which has been treated by a registered flame-retardant application concern, either as yardage or after fabrication, or which is made from a registered approved fabric shall be installed after the effective date of these rules and regulations [California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8] in any place or under any condition governed by Sections 13115 and 13119 of the Health and Safety Code unless such drape, hanging, curtain, drop, or similar decorative material or exterior fabric shall be labeled as required by California Code of Regulations, 
Title 19, Division 1, Section 1324. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, 
§1326] Retreatment. 
In cases where instructions are issued by the State Fire Mar­shal requiring retreatment or replacement offabrics or mate­rials previously treated with a flame-retardant chemical or registered as an approved fabric or material, the retreatment or replacement shall be made within ten (I 0) days after date of the order so requiring. A new certificate of flame resis­tance covering each such retreatment shall be delivered as for an original job as is provided for by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 1321. A new sample of the retreated fabric or material shall be attached to the certificate of flame resistance submitted to the State Fire Marshal. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §1327] Installation. 
The standard fire-resistance tests presume installation of approved registered fabrics in a normal vertical position. Some decorative materials installed otherwise, such as in narrow strips or suspended overhead in a horizontal position, may exhibit different burning characteristics. Since it is not feasible to devise tests for all such installations differing from normal, they must be judged on an individual basis. Where indicated, the State Fire Marshal may peiform such addi­tional tests as he deems necessary to ensure adequate fire 
resistance ofmaterials as installed. 
807.3 Pyroxylin plastic. Imitation leather or other material consisting of or coated with a pyroxylin or similarly hazard­ous base shall not be used in Group A occupancies. 
807.4 Occupancy-based requirements. In occupancies in Group A, E and I-4 day care facilities, decorative materials other than decorative vegetation shall comply with Sections 
807.4.1 through 807 .4.4.2. 
807.4.1 General. All of the following requirements shall apply to all Group A and E occupancies and Group I-4 day care facilities regulated by Sections 807.4.2 through 
807.4.4: 
1. 	
Explosive or highly flammable materials. Furnish­ings or decorative materials of an explosive or highly flammable character shall not be used. 

2. 	
Fire-retardant coatings. Fire-retardant coatings in existing buildings shall be maintained so as to retain the effectiveness of the treatment under service con­ditions encountered in actual use. 

3. 	
Obstructions. Furnishings or other objects shall not be placed to obstruct exits, access thereto, egress therefrom or visibility thereof. 


807.4.2 Group A. The requirements in Sections 807.4.2.1 through 807.4.2.3 shall apply to occupancies in Group A. 
807.4.2.1 Foam plastics. Exposed foam plastic materi­als and unprotected materials containing foam plastic used for decorative purposes or stage scenery or exhibit booths shall have a maximum heat release rate of 100 kW when tested in accordance with UL 1975, or when tested in accordance with NFP A 289 using the 20 kW ignition source. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Individual foam plastic items or items contain­ing foam plastic where the foam plastic does not exceed 1 pound (0.45 kg) in weight. 

2. 
Cellular or foam plastic shall be allowed for trim in accordance with Section 804.2. 



807.4.2.2 Motion picture screens. The screens upon which motion pictures are projected in new and existing buildings of Group A shall either meet the flame propagation performance criteria of NFPA 701 or shall comply with the requirements for a Class B interior finish in accordance with Section 803 of the California Building Code. 
807.4.2.3 Wood use in Group A-3 places of religious worship. In places of religious worship, wood used for ornamental purposes, trusses, paneling or chancel fur­nishing shall be allowed. 
807.4.2.4 Motion Picture and Television Production Studio Sound Stages. Approved production facilities and production locations with live audiences. 
807.4.2.4.1 Foam plastics, decorations, textile and film materials. Foam plastics, textile and film mate­rials and other decorative materials and materials containing foam plastics shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Exhibit booth construction shall have a maximum heat-release rate of 100 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 

2. 	
Decorative objects, including but not limited to mannequins, murals and signs, shall have a max­imum heat-release rate of 150 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 

Exception: When the aggregate area of murals, signs or similar decorative objects occupies less than 10 percent of the floor or wall area, this requirement may be waived by the fire chief 


3. 	
Theater, motion picture and television stage set­tings with or without horizontal projections and simulated caves or caverns shall have a maxi­mum heat-release rate of 100 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 


807.4.3 Group E. The requirements in Sections 807.4.3.1 and 807.4.3.2 shall apply to occupancies in Group E. 
807.4.3.1 Storage in corridors and lobbies. Clothing and personal effects shall not be stored in corridors and lobbies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Corridors protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

INTERIOR FINISH, DECORATIVE MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS 
2. 	
Corridors protected by an approved smoke detection system installed in accordance with Section 907. 

3. 	
Storage in metal lockers, provided the mini­mum required egress width is maintained. 


807.4.3.2 Artwork. Artwork and teaching materials shall be limited on the walls of corridors to not more than 20 percent of the wall area. 
807.4.4 Group 1-4, day care facilities. The requirements in Sections 807.4.4.1 and 807.4.4.2 shall apply to day care facilities classified in Group I-4. 
807.4.4.1 Storage in corridors and lobbies. Clothing and personal effects shall not be stored in corridors and lobbies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Corridors protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

2. 	
Corridors protected by an approved smoke detection system installed in accordance with Section 907. 

3. 	
Storage in metal lockers, provided the mini­mum required egress width is maintained. 


807.4.4.2 Artwork. Artwork and teaching materials shall be limited on walls of corridors to not more than 20 percent of the wall area. 
807.4.5 Group F-1 motion picture and television produc­tion studio sound stages, approved production facilities and production locations without live audiences. 
807.4.5.1 Foam plastics, decorations, textile and film materials. Foam plastics, textile and film materials and other decorative materials and materials containing foam plastics shall be in accordance with the follow­ing: 
1. 
Exhibit booth construction shall have a maximum heat-release rate of 100 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 

2. 	
Decorative objects, including but not limited to mannequins, murals and signs, shall have a max­imum heat-release rate of 150 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 

Exception: When the aggregate area of murals, signs or similar decorative objects occupies less than 10 percent of the floor or wall area, this requirement may be waived by the fire chief 

3. 	
Theater, motion picture and television stage set­tings with or without horizontal projections and simulated caves or caverns shall have a maxi­mum heat-release rate of 100 kilowatts when tested in accordance with UL 1975. 



SECTION 808 
FURNISHINGS OTHER THAN UPHOLSTERED 
FURNITURE AND MATTRESSES OR DECORATIVE 
MATERIALS IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS 

808.1 Wastebaskets and linen containers in Group 1-1, 1-2 and 1-3 occupancies. Wastebaskets, linen containers and other waste containers, including their lids, located in Group I-1, I-2 and I-3 occupancies shall be constructed of noncom­bustible materials or of materials that meet a peak rate of heat release not exceeding 300 kW/m2 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354 at an incident heat flux of 50 kW/m2 in the horizontal orientation. Metal wastebaskets and other metal waste containers with a capacity of 20 gallons (75.7 L) or more shall be listed in accordance with UL 1315 and shall be provided with a noncombustible lid. Portable containers exceeding 32 gallons (121 L) shall be stored in an area classi­fied as a waste and linen collection room and constructed in accordance with Table 509 of the California Building Code. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §3.19(b) and (c) Housekeeping. 
<

Every building or portion ofa building governed by Califor­nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations shall be maintained in a neat orderly manner, free from any 
condition that would create a fire or life hazard or a condi­tion which would add to or contribute to the rapid spread of fire. Provisions shall be made for the proper storage and dis­posal of waste materials and rubbish consistent with the fol­lowing: 
(b) 
All combustible waste material and rubbish shall be stored in approved containers or shall be stored in a man­ner approved by the enforcing agency as being consistent with standard fire prevention practices until such waste material and rubbish is removed from the premises or oth­erwise disposed ofin a proper manner. 

(
1) Containers with a capacity exceeding 5.33 cubic feet (40 gallons) (0.15 m3) shall comply with the provi­sions of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, Section 304.3. 

(2) 
Wastebaskets and linen containers in Group I-2 and I-3 occupancies shall comply with the provisions of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, Sec­tion 808. 


(c) 
Approved self-closing metal containers or listed dis­posal containers by an approved testing or listing agency shall be provided and maintained in all rooms or locations where oily rags, oily waste, paint rags, or similar materi­als subject to spontaneous ignition are used, or are stored temporarily. Such containers shall be emptied daily. 


808.2 Waste containers with a capacity of 20 gallons or more in Group R-2 college and university dormitories. Waste containers, including their lids, located in Group R-2 college and university dormitories, and with a capacity of 20 gallons (75.7 L) or more, shall be constructed of noncombus­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
tible materials or of materials that meet a peak rate of heat release not exceeding 300 kW/m2 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354 at an incident heat flux of 50 kW/m2 in the horizontal orientation. Metal wastebaskets and other metal waste containers with a capacity of 20 gallons (75.7 L) or more shall be listed in accordance with UL 1315 and shall be provided with a noncombustible lid. Portable containers exceeding 32 gallons (121 L) shall be stored in an area classi­fied as a waste and linen collection room constructed in accordance with Table 509 of the California Building Code. 
808.3 Signs. Foam plastic signs that are not affixed to interior building surfaces shall have a maximum heat release rate of 150 kW when tested in accordance with UL 1975, or when tested in accordance with NFPA 289 using the 20-kW igni­tion source. 
Exception: Where the aggregate area of foam plastic signs is less than 10 percent of the floor area or wall area of the room or space in which the signs are located, whichever is less, subject to the approval of the fire code official. 
808.4 Combustible lockers. Where lockers constructed of combustible materials are used, the lockers shall be consid­ered interior finish and shall comply with Section 803. 
Exception: Lockers constructed entirely of wood and non­combustible materials shall be permitted to be used wher­ever interior finish materials are required to meet a Class C classification in accordance with Section 803.1.1. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 9 -FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
> 
> 
> 
> 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 9 -FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-continued 
> 
> > 
> 
> 

CHAPTER 9 -FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-continued 

(continued) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 9-FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-continued 
> 
> 

CHAPTER 9 -FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-continued 
> 
> 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 9-FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-continued 
> 
> > 
> 
> 
> * The Califorma Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DlV!siOn I provisiOns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from 
the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 


CHAPTER 9 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
SECTION 901 
GENERAL 


901.1 Scope. The provisions of California this chapter shall specify where fire protection systems are required and shall apply to the design, installation, inspection, operation, testing and maintenance of all fire protection systems. 
901.2 Construction documents. The fire code official shall have the authority to require construction documents and cal­culations for all fire protection systems and to require permits be issued for the installation, rehabilitation or modification of any fire protection system. Construction documents for fire protection systems shall be submitted for review and approval prior to system installation. 
901.2.1 Statement of compliance. Before requesting final approval of the installation, where required by the fire code official, the installing contractor shall furnish a writ­ten statement to the fire code official that the subject fire protection system has been installed in accordance with approved plans and has been tested in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and the appropriate installa­tion standard. Any deviations from the design standards shall be noted and copies of the approvals for such devia­tions shall be attached to the written statement. 

901.3 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
901.4 Installation. Fire protection systems shall be main­tained in accordance with the original installation standards for that system. Required systems shall be extended, altered or augmented as necessary to maintain and continue protec­tion whenever the building is altered, remodeled or added to. Alterations to fire protection systems shall be done in accor­dance with applicable standards. 
901.4.1 Required fire protection systems. Fire protec­tion systems required by this code or the California Build­ing Code shall be installed, repaired, operated, tested and maintained in accordance with this code. 
901.4.2 Nonrequired fire protection systems. Any fire protection system or portion thereof not required by this code or the California Building Code shall be allowed to be furnished for partial or complete protection provided such installed system meets the applicable requirements of this code and the California Building Code. 

901.4.3 Fire areas. Where buildings, or portions thereof, are divided into fire areas so as not to exceed the limits established for requiring a fire protection system in accor­dance with this chapter, such fire areas shall be separated by fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the Califor­nia Building Code, or both, having a fire-resistance rating of not less than that determined in accordance with Section 
707.3.10 of the California Building Code. 
901.4.4 Additional fire protection systems. In occupan­cies of a hazardous nature, where special hazards exist in addition to the normal hazards of the occupancy, or where the fire code official determines that access for fire appara­tus is unduly difficult, the fire code official shall have the authority to require additional safeguards. Such safeguards include, but shall not be limited to, the following: auto­matic fire detection systems, fire alarm systems, automatic fire-extinguishing systems, standpipe systems, or portable or fixed extinguishers. Fire protection equipment required under this section shall be installed in accordance with this code and the applicable referenced standards. 
901.4.5 Appearance of equipment. Any device that has the physical appearance of life safety or fire protection equipment but that does not perform that life safety or fire protection function shall be prohibited. 
901.4.6 Pump and riser room size. Fire pump and auto­matic sprinkler system riser rooms shall be designed with adequate space for all equipment necessary for the instal­lation, as defined by the manufacturer, with sufficient working space around the stationary equipment. Clear­ances around equipment to elements of permanent con­struction, including other installed equipment and appliances, shall be sufficient to allow inspection, service, repair or replacement without removing such elements of permanent construction or disabling the function of a required fire-resistance-rated assembly. Fire pump and automatic sprinkler system riser rooms shall be provided with a door(s) and an unobstructed passageway large enough to allow removal of the largest piece of equipment. 
901.5 Installation acceptance testing. Fire detection and alarm systems, fire-extinguishing systems, fire hydrant sys­tems, fire standpipe systems, fire pump systems, private fire service mains and all other fire protection systems and appur­tenances thereto shall be subject to acceptance tests as con­tained in the installation standards and as approved by the fire code official. The fire code official shall be notified before any required acceptance testing. 
901.5.1 Occupancy. It shall be unlawful to occupy any portion of a building or structure until the required fire detection, alarm and suppression systems have been tested and approved. 
901.6 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire detection, alarm, and extinguishing systems, mechanical smoke exhaust systems, and smoke and heat vents shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times, and shall be replaced or repaired where defective. Nonrequired fire protection sys­tems and equipment shall be inspected, tested and maintained or removed. 
All fire alarm systems, fire detection systems, automatic sprinkler or extinguishing systems, communication systems, and all other equipment, material or systems required by 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
these regulations shall be maintained in an operable condi­tion at all times in accordance with this code and California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. Upon disruption or diminishment of the fire protective qualities of such equip­ment, material or systems, immediate action shall be insti­tuted to effect a reestablishment of such equipment, material or systems to their original normal and operational condi­tion. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division I, §1.14] Maintenance. 
Every fire alarm system or device, sprinkler system, fire extinguisher, fire hose, fire-resistive assembly or any other fire safety assembly, device, material or equipment installed and retained in service in any building or structure subject to California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regula­tions shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations and with their intended use. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division I, §3.24] Maintenance ofEquipment. 
All fire alarm systems, fire detection systems, automatic sprinkler or extinguishing systems, communication systems, and all other equipment, material or systems required by Cal­ifornia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times. Upon dis­ruption or diminishment of the fire protective qualities of such equipment, material or systems, immediate action shall be instituted to effect a reestablishment of such equipment material or systems to their original normal and operational condition. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904(a)] Required Inspection, Testing and Maintenance Frequencies. 
(a) All automatic fire extinguishing systems, including sys­tems installed as an alternate to other building require­ments, shall be inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with the following frequencies. Local authori­ties may require more frequent inspection, testing and maintenance and additional procedures. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904(a)(l)] Required Inspection, Testing and Maintenance Frequencies. 
(1) Water-based fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with the frequencies required by NFPA 25 (2002 edition) including Annexes A, B, C, D, and E as amended by the State of California. (Published as NFPA 25, 2006 California Edition.) 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904(b)] Required Inspection, Testing and Maintenance Frequencies. 
(b) When proof of the installation date of standpipe sys­tems or automatic fire sprinkler systems cannot be fur­nished, such systems shall receive initial testing and maintenance by July 1, 1985. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(a)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(a) All testing and maintenance on automatic fire extin­guishing systems in accordance with Health & Safety Code Section 13195 shall be pelformed by those licensed in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 13196.5. 
Exceptions: 
(
1) The State Fire Marshal may waive, in wntmg, licensing offire departments which conduct fire sprin­kler and standpipe system testing and maintenance. 

(2) 
Service on fire alarm systems and industrial systems as specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 13196.5(b) and (c) may be conducted without a license. 

(
3) Testing and maintenance on automatic fire extin­guishing systems exempted in writing by the State Fire Marshal, when the building owner or occupant has the staff and equipment to conduct testing and mainte­nance. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(b)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(b) Any testing and maintenance of automatic fire extin­guishing systems shall be performed in accordance with these requirements. 
Exceptions: 
(1) The State Fire Marshal may waive, in writing, the requirement that testing and maintenance be performed in accordance with these requirements when a licensee can demonstrate that a system cannot functionally be tested and maintained in accordance with the Califor­nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 
5. 
(2) 
If at any time a licensee encounters a specialized or modified system which cannot be tested and maintained in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5, the licensee shall con­tact the State Fire Marshal and test and maintain the system as directed. 

(A) 
The intent of this section is to cover automatic fire extinguishing systems as originally designed, installed and approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. It is not, however, intended to require that such systems be upgraded to current adopted standards. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(h)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(h) At the time of testing and maintenance, building man­agement shall be consulted to avoid unnecessary distur­bance ofnormal building operation. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(i)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(i) The licensee shall contact the local fire authority hav­ing jurisdiction prior to testing and maintenance ofa sys­
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
tem when required by the local fire authority having jurisdiction to do so. 
901.6.1 Standards. Fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with the referenced standards listed in Table 901.6.1 and Califor­nia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapters 3 and5. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.1(a)] Inspection Requirements. 
(a) A license shall not be required to peiform inspections. Inspections may be conducted by any person designated by the building owner or occupant who has developed competence through training and experience. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(g)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(g) Prior to activating any fire alarm component of an automatic fire extinguishing system, the licensee shall insure that the licensee is capable of restoring the fire alarm system. 

TABLE 901.6.1 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

SYSTEM  STANDARD  
Portable fire extinguishers  California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3  
Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing system  NFPA 12  
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems  NFPA 12A  
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems  NFPA 17  
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems  NFPA 17A  
Water-based fire protection systems  California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5  
Fire alarm systems  NFPA 72  
Mechanical smoke exhaust systems  NFPA204  
Smoke and heat vents  NFPA204  
Water-mist systems  NFPA 750  
Clean-agent extinguishing systems  NFPA2001  

901.6.2 Records. Records of all system inspections, tests and maintenance required by the referenced standards shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of three years and shall be copied to the fire code official upon request. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.1(b)] Inspection Requirements. 
(b) Records of all inspections shall be retained on the premises by the building or system owner for a period of five years after the next required inspection. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(c)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(c) Records of all testing and maintenance shall be retained on the premises by the building or system owner for a period of five years after the next required test or maintenance. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(j)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(j) It is the responsibility of the contractor, company or licensee to provide a written report ofthe test and mainte­nance results to the building owner and the local fire authority having jurisdiction at the completion of the test­ing and maintenance. 
901.6.2.1 Records information. Initial records shall include the name of the installation contractor, type of components installed, manufacturer of the components, location and number of components installed per floor. Records shall also include the manufacturers' operation and maintenance instruction manuals. Such records shall be maintained on the premises. 

901.7 Systems out of service. Where a required fire protec­tion system is out of service, the fire department and the fire code official shall be notified immediately and, where required by the fire code official, the building shall either be evacuated or an approved fire watch shall be provided for all occupants left unprotected by the shutdown until the fire pro­tection system has been returned to service. 
Where utilized, fire watches shall be provided with at least one approved means for notification of the fire department and their only duty shall be to perform constant patrols of the protected premises and keep watch for fires. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.1(c)] Inspection Requirements. 
(c) The owner or occupant shall promptly correct or repair deficiencies, damaged parts, or impairments found while peiforming the inspection, test, and maintenance requirements of this standard. Recalled products shall be replaced or remedied. Such replacement or remedial product shall be installed in accordance with the listing requirements, the manufacturer's instructions and the appropriate NFPA installation standards. A recalled product is a product subject to a statute or administrative regulation specifically requmng the manufacturer, importer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of a product, or any combination of such entities, to recall the product, or a product voluntarily recalled by a combination ofsuch entities. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(d)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(d) The building or system owner shall insure immediate correction ofany deficiencies noted during the service. A tag or label shall be affixed to a system only after all defi­ciencies have been corrected. The owner or occupant shall promptly correct or repair deficiencies, damaged parts, or impairments found while peiforming the inspection, test, and maintenance requirements of this standard. Recalled products shall be replaced or remedied. Such replace­ment or remedial product shall be installed in accordance with the listing requirements, the manufacturer's instruc­tions and the appropriate NFPA installation standards. A recalled product is a product subject to a statute or administrative regulation specifically requiring the manu­facturer, importer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer ofa 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
product, or any combination of such entities, to recall the product, or a product voluntarily recalled by a combination ofsuch entities. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(e)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(e) At the time of testing and maintenance, or at any time parts are replaced, an itemized invoice showing work per­formed and parts replaced shall be provided by the licensee to the system owner. If testing and maintenance is per­formed more than thirty (30) days prior to the next required testing and maintenance date, the invoice shall bear a state­ment indicating the system was tested and maintained early. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §904.2(j)] Testing and Maintenance Requirements. 
(f) The licensee shall offer to return all replaced parts to the system owner or owners representative, except those parts that are required to be returned to the manufacturer under conditions ofwarranty. 
901.7.1 Impairment coordinator. The building owner shall assign an impairment coordinator to comply with the requirements of this section. In the absence of a specific designee, the owner shall be considered the impairment coordinator. 
901.7.2 Tag required. A tag shall be used to indicate that a system, or portion thereof, has been removed from service. 
901.7.3 Placement of tag. The tag shall be posted at each fire department connection, system control valve, fire alarm control unit, fire alarm annunciator and fire command cen­ter, indicating which system, or part thereof, has been removed from service. The fire code official shall specify where the tag is to be placed. 
901.7.4 Preplanned impairment programs. Preplanned impairments shall be authorized by the impairment coordi­nator. Before authorization is given, a designated individual shall be responsible for verifying that all of the following procedures have been implemented: 
1. 	
The extent and expected duration of the impairment have been determined. 

2. 	
The areas or buildings involved have been inspected and the increased risks determined. 

3. 	
Recommendations have been submitted to manage­ment or building owner/manager. 

4. 	
The fire department has been notified. 

5. 
The insurance carrier, the alarm company, building owner/manager, and other authorities having jurisdic­tion have been notified. 

6. 	
The supervisors in the areas to be affected have been notified. 

7. 
A tag impairment system has been implemented. 

8. 	
Necessary tools and materials have been assembled on the impairment site. 


901.7.5 Emergency impairments. When unplanned impairments occur, appropriate emergency action shall be taken to minimize potential injury and damage. The impair­ment coordinator shall implement the steps outlined in Sec­tion 901.7.4. 
901.7.6 Restoring systems to service. When impaired equipment is restored to normal working order, the impair­ment coordinator shall verify that all of the following proce­dures have been implemented: 
1. 	
Necessary inspections and tests have been conducted to verify that affected systems are operational. 

2. 	
Supervisors have been advised that protection is restored. 

3. 	
The fire department has been advised that protection is restored. 

4. 	
The building owner/manager, insurance carrier, alarm company and other involved parties have been advised that protection is restored. 

5. 	
The impairment tag has been removed. 


901.8 Removal of or tampering with equipment. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any fire hydrant, fire detection and alarm system, fire suppression system, or other fire appliance required by this code except for the purpose of extinguishing fire, training pur­poses, recharging or making necessary repairs, or when approved by the fire code official. 
901.8.1 Removal of or tampering with appurtenances. Locks, gates, doors, barricades, chains, enclosures, signs, tags or seals which have been installed by or at the direction of the fire code official shall not be removed, unlocked, destroyed, tampered with or otherwise vandalized in any manner. 
901.9 Termination of monitoring service. For fire alarm sys­tems required to be monitored by this code, notice shall be made to the fire code official whenever alarm monitoring ser­vices are terminated. Notice shall be made in writing, to the fire code official by the monitoring service provider being ter­minated. 
901.10 Recall of fire protection components. Any fire pro­tection system component regulated by this code that is the subject of a voluntary or mandatory recall under federal law shall be replaced with approved, listed components in compli­ance with the referenced standards of this code. The fire code official shall be notified in writing by the building owner when the recalled component parts have been replaced. 
SECTION 902 
DEFINITIONS 


902.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chapter 
2: 

ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. 
ALARM SIGNAL. 
ALARM VERIFICATION FEATURE. 
ANNUNCIATOR. 
AUDIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. 
AUTOMATIC. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. 
AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM. 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. 
AVERAGE AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL. 
CARBON DIOXIDE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. 
CLEAN AGENT. 
CONSTANTLY ATTENDED LOCATION. 
DELUGE SYSTEM. 
DETECTOR, HEAT. 
DRY -CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT. 
ELEVATOR GROUP. 
EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEM. 
EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM 

COMMUNICATIONS. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.4(b)] "E" Definitions 
(b) 
Engineered Fixed Extinguishing System. A system which is custom designed for a particular hazard, using components which are approved or listed only for their broad performance characteristics. Components may be arranged into a variety of configurations. These systems shall include but not be limited to: 

(
1) Dry chemical systems 

(2) 
Carbon dioxide systems 

(3) 
Halogenated agent systems 

(
4) Steam systems 

(5) 
High expansion foam systems 

(6) 
Foam extinguishing systems 

(7) 
Liquid agent systems 

(
8) Clean agent systems 



FIRE ALARM BOX, MANUAL. 
FIRE ALARM CONTROL UNIT. 
FIRE ALARM SIGNAL. 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. 

FIRE APPLIANCE [SFM] is apparatus or equipment pro­vided or installed for use in the event ofan emergency. 
[B] FIRE AREA. 
FIRE DETECTOR, AUTOMATIC. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM. 
FIRE SAFETY FUNCTIONS. 
FIXED BASE OPERA TOR (FBO). 
FOAM-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. 
HALOGENATED EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM. 
IMPAIRMENT COORDINATOR. 
INITIATING DEVICE. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.9(a)] "I" Definitions. 
(a) Inspection. A visual examination ofa system or portion thereof to verify that it appears to be in operating condi­tion and is free ofphysical damage. 
MANUAL FIRE ALARM BOX. MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM DEVICE. MULTIPLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.12(a)] "M" Definitions. 
(a) Maintenance. Work performed to keep equipment operable or to make repairs. 
NOTIFICATION ZONE. NUISANCE ALARM. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.15(a)] "P" Definitions. 
(a) 
Pre-engineered Fixed Extinguishing System. A system where the number ofcomponents and their configurations are included in the description of the systems approval and listing. These systems shall include but not be limited to: 

(
1) Dry chemical systems 

(2) 
Carbon dioxide systems 

(3) 
Halogenated agent systems 

(
4) Liquid agent systems 

(5) 
Clean agent systems 



RECORD DRAWINGS. 
SINGLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM. 
SLEEPING UNIT. 
SMOKE ALARM. 
SMOKE DETECTOR. 
STANDPIPE SYSTEM, CLASSES OF. 

Class I system. 
Class II system. 
Class III system. 

STANDPIPE, TYPES OF. Automatic dry. Automatic wet. Manual dry. Manual wet. Semiautomatic dry. 
SUPERVISING STATION. 
SUPERVISORY SERVICE. 
SUPERVISORY SIGNAL. 
SUPERVISORY SIGNAL-INITIATING DEVICE. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.18(a)] "S" Definitions. 
(a) Service. The performance of testing and maintenance on an automatic fire extinguishing system. 
TIRES, BULK STORAGE OF. 
TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT. 
TROUBLE SIGNAL. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §902.19(a)] "T" Definitions. 
(a) Testing. A procedure used to determine the status of a system as intended by conducting periodic physical checks. 
VISIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE. 
WET-CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT. 
WIRELESS PROTECTION SYSTEM. 
ZONE. 
ZONE, NOTIFICATION. 
SECTION 903 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS 

903.1 General. Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section. 
903.1.1 Alternative protection. Alternative automatic fire-extinguishing systems complying with Section 904 shall be permitted in lieu of automatic sprinkler protection where recognized by the applicable standard and approved by the fire code official. 
903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler sys­
tems in new buildings and structures shall be provided in the > locations described in Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.12. 
903.2.1 Group A. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings and portions thereof used as Group A occupancies as provided in this section. For Group A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-4 occupancies, the automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout the floor area where the Group A-1, A-2, A-3 or A-4 occupancy is located, and in all floors from the Group A occupancy to, and including, the nearest level of exit discharge serving the Group A occupancy. For Group A-5 occupancies, the automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in the spaces indicated in Section 903.2.1.5. 
903.2.1.1 Group A-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-1 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more. 

3. 	
The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge serving such occupancies. 

4. 	
The fire area contains a multitheater complex. 



903.2.1.2 Group A-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-2 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464m2). 

2. 	
The fire area has an occupant load of 100 or more. 

3. 	
The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge serving such occupancies. 


4. 	The structure exceeds 5,000 square feet (465m2), contains more than one fire area containing a Group A-2 occupancy, and is separated into two or more buildings by fire walls of less than 4­hour fire-resistance rating without openings. 
903.2.1.3 Group A-3. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-3 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more. 

3. 	
The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge serving such occupancies. 


4. 	The structure exceeds 12,000 square feet ( 1155 m2 ), contains more than one fire area containing exhibition and display rooms, and is separated into two or more buildings by fire walls of less than 4-hour fire-resistance rating without open­ings. 
903.2.1.4 Group A-4. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-4 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more. 

3. 	
The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge serving such occupancies. 


903.2.1.5 Group A-5. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-5 occupancies in the fol­lowing areas: concession stands, retail areas, press boxes and other accessory use areas in excess of 1,000 square feet (93 m2). 
903.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities. An automatic sprin­kler system shall be installed throughout the entire floor containing an ambulatory care facility where either of the following conditions exist at any time: 
1. 	
Four or more care recipients are incapable of self­preservation, whether rendered incapable by staff or staff has accepted responsibility for care recipients already incapable. 

2. 	
One or more care recipients that are incapable of self-preservation are located at other than the level of exit discharge serving such a facility. 


In buildings where ambulatory care is provided on lev­els other than the level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the entire floor where such care is provided as well as all floors below, and all floors between the level of ambulatory care and the nearest level of exit discharge, including the level of exit discharge. 
903.2.3 Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for GroupE occupancies as follows: 
1. 	
Throughout all Group E fire areas greater than 12,000 square feet (1115 m2) in area. 

2. 	
Throughout every portion of educational buildings below the lowest level of exit discharge serving that portion of the building. 


Exception: An automatic sprinkler system is not required in any area below the lowest level of exit discharge serving that area where every class­room throughout the building has at least one exterior exit door at ground level. 
3. 	
In rooms or areas with special hazards such as lab­oratories, vocational shops and other such areas where hazardous materials in quantities not exceed­ing the maximum allowable quantity are used or stored. 

4. 	
Throughout any Group E structure greater than 12,000 square feet (1115 m2) in area, which con­tains more than one fire area, and which is sepa­rated into two or more buildings by fire walls ofless than 4-hour fire-resistance rating without openings. 

5. 	
For public school state-funded construction projects see Section 903.2.19. 


903.2.4 Group F-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings containing a Group F-1 occupancy where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
A Group F-1 fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
A Group F-1 fire area is located more than three sto­ries above grade plane. 

3. 	
The combined area of all Group F-1 fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m2). 

4. 
A Group F-1 occupancy used for the manufacture of upholstered furniture or mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet (232 m2). 


903.2.4.1 Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all Group F-1 occupancy fire areas that contain wood­working operations in excess of 2,500 square feet in area (232 m2) which generate finely divided combusti­ble waste or which use finely divided combustible materials. [SFM] A fire wall of less than 4-hour fire­resistance rating without openings, or any fire wall with openings, shall not be used to establish separate fire areas. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

903.2.5 Group H. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided in high-hazard occupancies as required in Sec­tions 903.2.5.1 through 903.2.5.3. 
903.2.5.1 General. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in Group H occupancies. 
903.2.5.2 Group H-5 occupancies. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout buildings containing Group H-5 occupancies. The design of the sprinkler system shall not be less than that required under the California Building Code for the occupancy hazard classifications in accordance with Table 
903.2.5.2. 
Where the design area of the sprinkler system con­sists of a corridor protected by one row of sprinklers, the maximum number of sprinklers required to be cal­culated is 13. 
TABLE 903.2.5.2 GROUP H-5 SPRINKLER DESIGN CRITERIA 

LOCATION  OCCUPANCY HAZARD CLASSIFICATION  
Fabrication areas  Ordinary Hazard Group 2  
Service corridors  Ordinary Hazard Group 2  
Storage rooms without dispensing  Ordinary Hazard Group 2  
Storage rooms with dispensing  Extra Hazard Group 2  
Corridors  Ordinary Hazard Group 2  

903.2.5.3 Pyroxylin plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plas­tics are manufactured, stored or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg). 
903.2.5.4 Group H occupancies located above the 1Oth story. The fire sprinkler system shall be designed and zoned to provide separate indication upon water­flow for each side of the 2-hour fire-smoke barrier above the 1Oth story. 

903.2.6 Group I. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings with a Group I fire area. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
An automatic sprinkler system installed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.2 shall be permitted in Group I -1 facilities. 

2. 	
An automatic sprinkler system installed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.3 shall be allowed in Group I-1 facilities when in compliance with all of the following: 


2.1. A hydraulic design information sign 	is located on the system riser; 
2.2. Exception 	1 of Section 903.4 is not applied; and 
2.3. Systems 	shall be maintained in accor­dance with the requirements of Section 
903.3.1.2. 
3. 	An automatic sprinkler system is not required where day care facilities are at the level of exit 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
discharge and where every room where care is provided has at least one exterior exit door. 
4. 	In buildings where Group I-4 day care is pro­vided on levels other than the level of exit dis­charge, an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 shall be installed on the entire floor where care is pro­vided and all floors between the level of care and the level of exit discharge, all floors below the level of exit discharge, other than areas classified as an open parking garage. 

903.2.6.1 Group I-2. An existing, unsprinklered Group I-2, nurses' station open to fire-resistive exit access corridors shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system located directly above the nurses' station. It shall be permitted to connect the automatic sprinkler system to the domestic water service. 
903.2.6.2 Group I-3. Every building, or portion thereof, where inmates or persons are in custody or 
II 
restrained shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system conforming to NFPA 13. The main sprinkler control valve or valves and all other control valves in the system shall be locked in the open position and electrically supervised so that at least an audible and visual alarm will sound at a constantly attended loca­tion when valves are closed. The sprinkler branch pip­ing serving cells may be embedded in the concrete construction. 
903.2.7 Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings containing a Group M occupancy where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
A Group M fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
A Group M fire area is located more than three sto­ries above grade plane. 

3. 	
The combined area of all Group M fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m2). 

4. 	
A Group M occupancy used for the display and sale of upholstered furniture or mattresses exceeds 5,000 square feet (464m2). 


5. 	[SFM] The structure exceeds 24,000 square feet (465m2), contains more than one fire area contain­ing a Group M occupancy, and is separated into two or more buildings by fire walls of less than 4-hour fire-resistance rating. 
903.2.7.1 High-piled storage. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided as required in Chapter 32 in all buildings of Group M where storage of merchandise is in high-piled or rack storage arrays. 
903.2.8 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire area. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Existing Group R-3 occupancies converted to Group R-3.1 occupancies not housing bedridden clients, 
138 
not housing nonambulatory clients above the first floor, and not housing clients above the second floor. 
2. 	
Existing Group R-3 occupancies converted to Group R-3.1 occupancies housing only one bedridden cli­ent and complying with Section 425.8.3.3 ofthe Cal­ifornia Building Code. 

3. 	
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13113, occupancies housing ambulatory children only, none of whom are mentally ill or mentally retarded, and the buildings or portions thereof in which such children are housed are not more than two stories in height, and buildings or portions thereof housing such children have an automatic fire alarm system activated by approved smoke detectors. 

4. 	
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.6, occupancies licensed for protective social care which house ambulatory clients only, none of whom is a child (under the age of 18 years), or who is elderly (65 years ofage or over). 


When not used in accordance with Section 504.2 or 
506.3 of the California Building Code, an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.2 shall be allowed in Group R-2.1 occupancies. 
An automatic sprinkler system designed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.3 shall not be utilized in Group R-2.1 or R-4 occupancies. 
903.2.8.1 Group R-3 congregate residences. An auto­
<

matic sprinkler system installed in accordance with 
Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in Group R-3 con­
gregate living facilities with 16 or fewer residents. 
<

903.2.9 Group S-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings containing a Group S-1 occupancy where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
A Group S-1 fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

2. 	
A Group S-1 fire area is located more than three sto­ries above grade plane. 

3. 	
The combined area of all Group S-1 fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m2). 

4. 
A Group S-1 fire area used for the storage of com­mercial trucks or buses where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464m2). 

5. 
A Group 	S-1 occupancy used for the storage of upholstered furniture or mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet (232 m2). 


903.2.9.1 Repair garages. An automatic sprinkler sys­tem shall be provided throughout all buildings used as repair garages in accordance with Section 406.8 of the California Building Code, as shown: 
1. 	Buildings having two or more stories above grade plane, including basements, with a fire area con­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
taining a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square feet (929 m2). 
2. 	
Buildings no more than one story above grade plane, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 12,000 square feet (1115 m2). 

3. 
Buildings with repair garages servicing vehicles parked in basements. 

4. 
A Group S-1 fire area used for the repair of com­mercial trucks or buses where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464m2). 


903.2.9.2 Bulk storage of tires. Buildings and struc­tures where the area for the storage of tires exceeds 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3) shall be equipped through­out with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
903.2.10 Group S-2 enclosed parking garages. An auto­matic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout build­ings classified as enclosed parking garages in accordance with Section 406.6 of the California Building Code as fol­lows: 

1. 	
Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2); or 


2. 
Where the enclosed parking garage is located > beneath other groups. 


903.2.10.1 Commercial parking garages. An auto­matic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings used for storage of commercial trucks or buses where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464m2). 
903.2.11 Specific buildings areas and hazards. In all occupancies other than Group U, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed for building design or hazards in the locations set forth in Sections 903 .2.11.1 through 
903.2.11.6. 
903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all sto­ries, including basements, of all buildings where the floor area exceeds 1,500 square feet (139.4 m2) and where there is not provided at least one of the following types of exterior wall openings: 
1. 	
Openings below grade that lead directly to ground level by an exterior stairway complying with Section 1009 or an outside ramp complying with Section 1010. Openings shall be located in each 50 linear feet (15 240 mm), or fraction thereof, of exterior wall in the story on at least one side. The required openings shall be distrib­uted such that the lineal distance between adja­cent openings does not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm). 

2. 	
Openings entirely above the adjoining ground level totaling at least 20 square feet (1.86 m2) in each 50 linear feet (15 240 mm), or fraction thereof, of exterior wall in the story on at least 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
one side. The required openings shall be distrib­uted such that the lineal distance between adja­cent openings does not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm). The height of the bottom of the clear open­ing shall not exceed 44 inches (1118 mm) mea­sured from the floor. 
903.2.11.1.1 Opening dimensions and access. Openings shall have a minimum dimension of not less than 30 inches (762 mm). Such openings shall be accessible to the fire department from the exterior and shall not be obstructed in a manner that fire fighting or rescue cannot be accomplished from the exterior. 
903.2.11.1.2 Openings on one side only. Where openings in a story are provided on only one side and the opposite wall of such story is more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from such openings, the story shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system or openings as specified above shall be provided on at least two sides of the story. 
903.2.11.1.3 Basements. Where any portion of a basement is located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from openings required by Section 903.2.11.1, or where walls, partitions or other obstructions are installed that restrict the application of water from hose streams, the basement shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
903.2.11.2 Rubbish and linen chutes. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed at the top of rubbish and linen chutes and in their terminal rooms. Chutes shall have additional sprinkler heads installed at alter­nate floors and at the lowest intake. Where a rubbish chute extends through a building more than one floor below the lowest intake, the extension shall have sptin­klers installed that are recessed from the drop area of the chute and protected from freezing in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Such sprinklers shall be installed at alternate floors beginning with the second level below the last intake and ending with the floor above the discharge. Chute sprinklers shall be accessi­ble for servicing. 
903.2.11.3 Buildings 55 feet or more in height. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed through­out buildings with a floor level having an occupant load of 30 or more that is located 55 feet (16 764 mm) or more above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Airport control towers. 

2. 	
Open parking structures. 

3. 	
Occupancies in Group F-2. 


903.2.11.4 Ducts conveying hazardous exhausts. Where required by the California Mechanical Code, automatic sprinklers shall be provided in ducts convey­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
ing hazardous exhaust, flammable or combustible materials. 
Exception: Ducts where the largest cross-sectional diameter of the duct is less than 10 inches (254 mm). 

903.2.11.5 Commercial cooking operations. An auto­matic sprinkler system shall be installed in a commer­cial kitchen exhaust hood and duct system where an automatic sprinkler system is used to comply with Sec­tion 904. 
903.2.11.6 Other required suppression systems. In 
addition to the requirements of Section 903.2, the pro­visions indicated in Table 903.2.11.6 also require the installation of a fire suppression system for certain buildings and areas. 
TABLE 903.2.11.6 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS 

SECTION  SUBJECT  
914.2.1  Covered and open mall buildings  
914.3.1  High rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupan­cies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire depart­ment vehicle access  
914.4.1  Atriums  
914.5.1  Underground structures  
914.6.1  Stages  
914.7.1  Special amusement buildings  
914.8.2, 914.8.5  Aircraft hangars  
914.9  Flammable finishes  
914.10  Drying rooms  
914.11.1  Ambulatory care facilities  
1028.6.2.3  Smoke-protected assembly seating  
1103.5.1  Pyroxylin plastic storage in existing buildings  
1103.5.2  Existing Group I-2 occupancies  
2108.2  Dry cleaning plants  
2108.3  Dry cleaning machines  
2309.3.2.6.2  Hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing area canopies  
2404.2  Spray finishing in Group A, E, I or R  
2404.4  Spray booths and spray rooms  
2405.2  Dip-tank rooms in Group A, I or R  
2405.4.1  Dip tanks  
2405.9.4  Hardening and tempering tanks  
2703.10  HPM facilities  
2703.10.1.1  HPM work station exhaust  
2703.10.2  HPM gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures  
2703.10.3  HPM exit access corridor  
2703.10.4  HPM exhaust ducts  
2703.10.4.1  HPM noncombustible ducts  
2703.10.4.2  HPM combustible ducts  

TABLE 903.2.11.6-continued 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS 

SECTION  SUBJECT  
2807.3  Lumber production conveyor enclosures  
2808.7  Recycling facility conveyor enclosures  
3006.1  Class A and B ovens  
3006.2  Class C and D ovens  
Table 3206.2  Storage fire protection  
3206.4  Storage  
5003.8.4.1  Gas rooms  
5003.8.5.3  Exhausted enclosures  
5004.5  Indoor storage of hazardous materials  
5005.1.8  Indoor dispensing of hazardous materials  
5104.4.1  Aerosol warehouses  
5106.3.2  Aerosol display and merchandising areas  
5204.5  Storage of more than 1,000 cubic feet of loose combustible fibers  
5306.2.1  Exterior medical gas storage room  
5306.2.2  Interior medical gas storage room  
5306.2.3  Medical gas storage cabinet  
5606.5.2.1  Storage of smokeless propellant  
5606.5.2.3  Storage of small arms primers  
5704.3.7.5.1  Flammable and combustible liquid storage rooms  
5704.3.8.4  Flammable and combustible liquid storage warehouses  
5705.3.7.3  Flammable and combustible liquid Group H-2 or H-3 areas  
6004.1.2  Gas cabinets for highly toxic and toxic gas  
6004.1.3  Exhausted enclosures for highly toxic and toxic gas  
6004.2.2.6  Gas rooms for highly toxic and toxic gas  
6004.3.3  Outdoor storage for highly toxic and toxic gas  
6504.1.1  Pyroxylin plastic storage cabinets  
6504.1.3  Pyroxylin plastic storage vaults  
6504.2  Pyroxylin plastic storage and manufacturing  
California Building Code Section 430  Horse racing stables  
California Building Code Section 431  Pet kennels  
California Building Code Section 439  Public libraries  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 cubic foot= 0.023 m3. 
(continued) 

903.2.12 During construction. Automatic sprinkler sys­tems required during construction, alteration and demoli­tion operations shall be provided in accordance with Section 3313. 
903.2.13 Reserved. 
903.2.14 Motion picture and television production studio sound stages, approved production facilities and produc­tion locations. 
903.2.14.1 Existing Sound Stages and Approved Pro­duction Facilities. All existing sound stages and approved production facilities equipped with an auto­matic fire sprinkler system shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions in this chapter. 
903.2.14.2 New sound stages. All new sound stages shall be equipped with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system. The system shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the California Fire Code, Chapter 9, and shall meet the minimum design requirements ofan Extra Hazard, Group 2 system. 

903.2.15 Automatic sprinkler system -existing high-rise buildings. Regardless ofany other provisions ofthese reg­ulations, every existing high-rise building of Type li-B, Type Ill-B or Type V-B construction shall be provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system conforming toNFPA 13. 
903.2.15.1 Existing R-1 and R-2 high-rise buildings fire-extinguishing systems. Automatic fire-extinguish­ing systems installed in any existing high-rise structure in which a Group R-I or a Group R-2 occupancy is located shall have an approved flow indicator electri­cally interconnected to the required fire alarm system. 

903.2.16 Group L occupancies. An automatic fire protec­tion system shall be installed throughout buildings hous­ing Group L occupancies. Sprinkler system design for research laboratories and similar areas of a Group L occupancy shall not be less than that required for Ordi­nary Hazard Group 2 with a design area of not less than 3,000 square feet (279m2). 
In mixed occupancies, portions of floors or buildings not classified as Group L occupancies shall be provided with sprinkler protection designed of not less than that required for Ordinary Hazard Group I with a design area ofnot less than 3,000 square feet (279m2). 
903.2.16.1 Group L occupancies located above the 
10111 
story. The automatic sprinkler system shall be designed and zoned to provide separate indication upon water-flow for each side of the 2-hour fire-smoke barrier above the I Oth story. 

903.2.17 Fixed guideway transit systems. 
903.2.17.1 Automatic sprinkler system. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in all stations of fixed guideway transit systems. 
Exceptions: 
I. 	Guideways when the closest sprinkler heads to the guideway are within 3 feet (9I4 mm) of the edge, 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
over the platform and spaced 6 feet (I 829 mm) on center, parallel to the guideway. 
2. 	
Station agent booths not exceeding I 50 square feet (/3.9 m2) in area, when provided with an approved smoke detector connected to the building fire alarm system. 

3. 	
Power substations. 

4. 	
Machinery rooms, electrical rooms and train con­trol rooms protected by an approved automatic fixed fire-extinguishing system. 

5. 	
Open stations. 

6. 	
Station platform areas open to three or more sides. 


903.2.17.2 Station guideway deluge system. Under­ground stations and stations in open cuts with walls 5 feet (I 524 mm) above the top of the running rail and with a raised platform shall be provided with an under­vehicle guideway manually activated deluge sprinkler system. In open cut stations, such system shall be pro­vided in guideways which are situated between a raised platform edge and a retaining wall. 
903.2.17.2.1 Systems shall be provided along the entire length oftrack at each station platform. 
903.2.17.2.2 Deluge nozzles with caps shall be located in the approximate center of track with spacing designed to completely wet the undersides ofthe vehicle at the applied density. 
903.2.17.2.3 System density shall be a minimum of O.I9 gallon per minute (gpm) per square foot (0.72 Urn per m2) for the design area. When more than one zone is provided, two adjacent zones are required to be considered operating for calculating purposes. 
903.2.17.2.4 Deluge systems shall be directly con­nected to a water supply capable of supplying the required flow rate for a minimum 30-minute dura­tion. 
903.2.17.2.5 Controls or manually operable valves shall be in a location acceptable to the Fire Code Official. All deluge systems shall be monitored by the station fire alarm system. 
903.2.17.2.6 Each valve shall be monitored by a separate circuit. The alarm panel shall be located in an area normally occupied by station personnel or signals shall be transmitted to the operations con­trol center (OCC). 

903.2.18 Group U private garages and carports accessory to Group R-3 occupancies. Carports with habitable space above and attached garages, accessory to Group R-3 occupancies, shall be protected by residential fire sprin­klers in accordance with this section. Residential fire sprinklers shall be connected to, and installed in accor­dance with, an automatic residential fire sprinkler system that complies with Section R3 I 3 ofthe California Residen­tial Code or with NFPA 13D. Fire sprinklers shall be resi­dential sprinklers or quick-response sprinklers, designed to provide a minimum density of 0.05 gpmljr (2.04 mm! 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
min) over the area ofthe garage and/or carport, but not to exceed two sprinklers for hydraulic calculation purposes. Garage doors shall not be considered obstructions with respect to sprinkler placement. 
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler sys­tem shall not be required when additions or alterations are made to existing carports and/or garages that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed in accordance with this section. 
903.2.19 Public school state-funded construction proj­ects for kindergarten through 12th grade -automatic sprinkler system requirements. 
903.2.19.1 New public school campus. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all occupancies. The provisions of this section shall apply to any public school project consisting ofone or more buildings on a new school campus and receiving state funds pursuant to Leroy F. Greene School Facilities Act of 1998, Cali­fornia Education Code, Sections 17070.10 through 17079. For purposes ofthis section, new campus refers to a school site, where an application for construction of original buildings was made to DSA on or after July 1, 2002. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A relocatable building that is sited with the intent that it be at the site for less than three years and is sited upon a temporary foundation in a manner that is designed to permit easy removal. Also see CCR, Title 24, Part 1, California Administrative Code, Section 4-314 for definition of relocatable building. 

2. 	
Detached buildings designed and used for non­instructional purposes that meet the applicable requirements for that occupancy. Buildings would include, but not be limited to: 


Concession stand 
Press box 
Restroom facilities 
Shade structure 
Snack bar 
Storage building 
Ticket booth 
903.2.19.1.1 Sprinklers shall be installed in spaces where the ceiling creates a "ceiling-plenum" or the space above the ceiling is utilized for environmental air. 

II 	903.2.19.1.2 Fire-resistive substitution for new campus. A new public school campus shall be enti­tled to include in the design and construction docu­ments all of the applicable fire-resistive construction substitutions as permitted by this code. 
903.3 Installation requirements. Automatic sprinkler sys­tems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Sec­tions 903.3.1 through 903.3.7. 
903.3.1 Standards. Sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, unless otherwise permitted by Sections 903.3.1.2 and 903.3.1.3 and other chapters of this code, as applicable. 
903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 sprinkler systems. Where the pro­visions of this code require that a building or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with this section, sprin­klers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13 as amended in Chapter 47 except as provided in Section 903.3 .1.1.1. 
903.3.1.1.1 Exempt locations. In other than Group 1-2, 1-2.1 and I-3 occupancies, automatic sprinklers shall not be required in the following rooms or areas where such rooms or areas are protected with an approved automatic fire detection system in accor­dance with Section 907.2 that will respond to visible or invisible particles of combustion. Sprinklers shall not be omitted from any room merely because it is damp, of fire-resistance rated construction or con­tains electrical equipment. 
1. 	
Any room where the application of water, or flame and water, constitutes a serious life or fire hazard. 

2. 
Any room or space where sprinklers are con­sidered undesirable because of the nature of the contents, when approved by the fire code official. 


< 
3. 	Fire service access elevator machine rooms and machinery spaces. 
4 	Machine rooms and machinery spaces associ­ated with occupant evacuation elevators designed in accordance with Section 3008 of the Cal(fornia Building Code. 
5. 	Spaces or areas in telecommunications build­ings used exclusively for telecommunications equipment, and associated electrical power distribution equipment, provided those spaces or areas are equipped throughout with an automatic smoke detection system in accor­dance with Section 907.2 and are separated from the remainder of the building by not less than 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accor­dance with Section 707 of the California 
II 
Building Code or not less than 2-hour hori­zontal assemblies constructed in accordance 
with Section 712 of the California Building Code, or both. 
6. 	
Solar photovoltaic panel structures with no use underneath. Signs may be provided, as determined by the enforcing agency prohibit­ing any use underneath including storage. 

7. 	
Solar photovoltaic (PV) panels supported by framing that have sufficient uniformly distrib­uted and unobstructed openings throughout the top ofthe array (horizontal plane) to allow heat and gases to escape, as determined by the enforcing agency. 


903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems in Group R occupancies up to and including four stories in height shall be permitted to be installed throughout in accordance with NFP A 13R as amended in Chapter 47 . 
903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks. Sprinkler protec­tion shall be provided for exterior balconies, decks and ground floor patios of dwelling units where the building is of Type V construction, provided there is a roof or deck above. Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to be located such that their deflectors are within 1 inch (25 mm) to 6 inches (152 mm) below the structural members and a maximum distance of 14 inches (356 mm) below the deck of the exterior balconies and decks that are constructed of open wood joist con­struction. 
903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems installed in one and two-family dwellings, Group R-3 and R-4 congregate living facili­ties and townhouses shall be permitted to be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13D. 
903.3.2 Quick-response and residential sprinklers. Where automatic sprinkler systems are required by this code, quick-response or residential automatic sprinklers shall be installed in the following areas in accordance with Section 903.3.1 and their listings: 
1. 	
Throughout all spaces within a smoke compartment containing care recipient sleeping units in Group I-2 in accordance with the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Throughout all spaces within a smoke compartment containing treatment rooms in ambulatory care facil­ities. 



> 3. 	Dwelling units and sleeping units in Group R occu­pancies. 
4. Light-hazard occupancies as defined in NFPA 13. 
903.3.3 Obstructed locations. Automatic sprinklers shall be installed with due regard to obstructions that will delay activation or obstruct the water distribution pattern. Auto­matic sprinklers shall be installed in or under covered kiosks, displays, booths, concession stands or equipment that exceeds 4 feet (1219 mm) in width. Not less than a 3­foot (914 mm) clearance shall be maintained between automatic sprinklers and the top of piles of combustible fibers. 
Exception: Kitchen equipment under exhaust hoods protected with a fire-extinguishing system in accor­dance with Section 904. 
903.3.4 Actuation. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be automatically actuated unless specifically provided for in this code. 
903.3.5 Water supplies. Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section and the standards referenced in Section 903.3.1. The potable water supply shall be protected against backflow in accordance 

> with Health and Safety Code, Section I3II4. 7. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
903.3.5.1 Domestic services. Where the domestic ser­vice provides the water supply for the automatic sprin­kler system, the supply shall be in accordance with this section. 
903.3.5.1.1 Limited area sprinkler systems. Lim­ited area sprinkler systems serving fewer than 20 sprinklers on any single connection are permitted to be connected to the domestic service where a wet automatic standpipe is not available. Limited area sprinkler systems connected to domestic water sup­plies shall comply with each of the following requirements: 
1. 	
Valves shall not be installed between the domestic water riser control valve and the sprinklers. 

Exception: An approved indicating control valve supervised in the open position in accordance with Section 903.4. 

2. 	
The domestic service shall be capable of sup­plying the simultaneous domestic demand and the sprinkler demand required to be hydrauli­cally calculated by NFPA 13, NFPA 13D or NFPA 13R. 


903.3.5.1.2 Residential combination services. A single combination water supply shall be allowed provided that the domestic demand is added to the sprinkler demand as required by NFP A 13R. 
903.3.5.2 Secondary water supply. An automatic sec-I ondary on-site water supply having a usable capacity of I not less than the hydraulically calculated sprinkler demand, including the hose stream requirement, shall be provided for high-rise buildings and Group I-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access in Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F as 
determined by the California Building Code. An addi­tional fire pump shall not be required for the secondary water supply unless needed to provide the minimum design intake pressure at the suction side of the fire pump supplying the automatic sprinkler system. The 
secondary water supply shall have a duration of not less than 30 minutes or as determined by the occupancy I I hazard classification in accordance with NFPA 13, 
whichever is greater. The Class I standpipe system demand shall not be required to be included in the sec­ondary on-site water supply calculations. In no case shall the secondary on-site water supply be less than I5,000 gallons. 
Exception: Existing buildings. 

903.3.6 Hose threads. Fire hose threads and fittings used in connection with automatic sprinkler systems shall be as prescribed by the fire code official. 
903.3.7 Fire department connections. The location of fire department connections shall be approved by the fire code official. 
903.3.8 Floor control valves. Floor control valves and wateiflow detection assemblies shall be installed at each floor where any ofthe following occur: 
1. 	
Buildings where the floor level ofthe highest story is located more than 30 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. 

2. 	
Buildings that are four or more stories in height. 

3. 	
Buildings that are two or more stories below the highest level offire department vehicle access. 


Exception: Group R-3 and R-3.1 occupancies floor control valves and watnflow detection assemblies shall not be required. 
903.4 Sprinkler system supervision and alarms. All valves controlling the water supply for automatic sprinkler systems, pumps, tanks, water levels and temperatures, critical air pres­sures and water-flow switches on all sprinkler systems shall be electrically supervised by a listed fire alarm control unit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Automatic sprinkler systems protecting one-and two-family dwellings. 

2. 	
Limited area systems serving fewer than 20 sprin­klers. 

3. 	
Automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with NFP A 13R where a common supply main is used to supply both domestic water and the auto­matic sprinkler system, and a separate shutoff valve for the automatic sprinkler system is not provided. 

4. 	
Jockey pump control valves that are sealed or locked in the open position. 

5. 	
Control valves to commercial kitchen hoods, paint spray booths or dip tanks that are sealed or locked in the open position. 

6. 	
Valves controlling the fuel supply to fire pump engines that are sealed or locked in the open posi­tion. 

7. 	
Trim valves to pressure switches in dry, preaction and deluge sprinkler systems that are sealed or locked in the open position. 


903.4.1 Monitoring. Alarm, supervisory and trouble sig­nals shall be distinctly different and shall be automatically transmitted to an approved supervising station or, when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an audible signal at a constantly attended location. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Underground key or hub valves in roadway boxes provided by the municipality or public utility are not required to be monitored. 

2. 	
Backflow prevention device test valves located in limited area sprinkler system supply piping shall be locked in the open position. In occupancies required to be equipped with a fire alarm system, the backflow preventer valves shall be electri­cally supervised by a tamper switch installed in 


accordance with NFP A 72 and separately annun­ciated. 

903.4.2 Alarms. One exterior approved audible device, located on the exterior of the building in an approved loca­tion, shall be connected to each automatic sprinkler system. 
Such sprinkler water-flow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the system. Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system. Visible alarm notification appliances shall not be required except when required by Section 907. 
903.4.3 Floor control valves. Approved supervised indi­cating control valves shall be provided at the point of con­nection to the riser on each floor in high-rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access. 
903.5 Testing and maintenance. Sprinkler systems shall be tested and maintained in accordance with Section 901. 
903.6 Where required in existing buildings and struc­tures. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in existing buildings and structures where required in Chapter 
11. 
• 

SECTION 904 
ALTERNATIVE AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING 
SYSTEMS 

904.1 General. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems, other than automatic sprinkler systems, shall be designed, installed, inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with the pro­visions of this section and the applicable referenced stan­dards. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, §904(a)(2)] Required Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Frequencies. 
(2) Engineered and pre-engineered fixed extinguishing systems shall be inspected, tested and maintained at least semi-annually, and immediately after a system activation. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, §904(c)] Required Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Frequencies. 
(c) Engineered and pre-engineered fixed extinguishing systems, regardless ofinstallation date, shall be inspected, tested and maintained within the time periods specified in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Sec­tion 904(a)(2) above. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, §904.7(a) through (c)] Inspection, Testing, and Mainte­nance Requirements for Engineered and Pre-engineered Fixed Extinguishing Systems. 
Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance shall be performed in accordance with: 
(a) California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 904( a)(2), 
(b) 
the manufacturer's written instructions, which are approved and on file with the Office ofthe State Fire Mar­shal; and 

(c) 
the applicable standards adopted in California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9, (California Fire Code). 


904.1.1 Certification of service personnel for fire-extin­guishing equipment. Service personnel providing or con­ducting maintenance on automatic fire-extinguishing systems, other than automatic sprinkler systems, shall pos­sess a valid certificate issued by an approved governmen­tal agency, or other approved organization for the type of system and work performed. 

904.2 Where required. Automatic fire-extinguishing sys­tems installed as an alternative to the required automatic sprinkler systems of Section 903 shall be approved by the fire code official. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall not be considered alternatives for the purposes of exceptions or reductions allowed by other requirements of this code. 
904.2.1 Commercial hood and duct systems. Each required commercial kitchen exhaust hood and duct sys­tem required by Section 609 to have a Type I hood shall be protected with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system installed in accordance with this code. 

904.3 Installation. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be installed in accordance with this section. 
904.3.1 Electrical wiring. Electrical wiring shall be in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
904.3.2 Actuation. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be automatically actuated and provided with a man­ual means of actuation in accordance with Section 
904.11.1. Where more than one hazard could be simulta­neously involved in fire due to their proximity, all hazards shall be protected by a single system designed to protect all hazards that could become involved. 
Exception: Multiple systems shall be permitted to be installed if they are designed to operate simultaneously. 
904.3.3 System interlocking. Automatic equipment inter­locks with fuel shutoffs, ventilation controls, door closers, window shutters, conveyor openings, smoke and heat vents, and other features necessary for proper operation of the fire-extinguishing system shall be provided as required by the design and installation standard utilized for the haz­ard. 

904.3.4 Alarms and warning signs. Where alarms are required to indicate the operation of automatic fire-extin­guishing systems, distinctive audible, visible alarms and warning signs shall be provided to warn of pending agent discharge. Where exposure to automatic-extinguishing agents poses a hazard to persons and a delay is required to ensure the evacuation of occupants before agent discharge, a separate warning signal shall be provided to alert occu­pants once agent discharge has begun. Audible signals shall be in accordance with Section 907.5.2. 
904.3.5 Monitoring. Where a building fire alarm system is installed, automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

monitored by the building fire alarm system in accordance with NFP A 72. 
904.4 Inspection and testing. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be inspected and tested in accordance with the provisions of this section ptior to acceptance. 
904.4.1 Inspection. Prior to conducting final acceptance tests, the following items shall be inspected: 
1. 	
Hazard specification for consistency with design hazard. 

2. 
Type, location and spacing of automatic-and man­ual-initiating devices. 

3. 	
Size, placement and position of nozzles or discharge orifices. 

4. 
Location and identification 	of audible and visible alarm devices. 

5. 	
Identification of devices with proper designations. 

6. 	
Operating instructions. 



904.4.2 Alarm testing. Notification appliances, connec­tions to fire alarm systems, and connections to approved supervising stations shall be tested in accordance with this section and Section 907 to verify proper operation. 
904.4.2.1 Audible and visible signals. The audibility and visibility of notification appliances signaling agent discharge or system operation, where required, shall be verified. 

904.4.3 Monitor testing. Connections to protected prem­ises and supervising station fire alarm systems shall be tested to verify proper identification and retransmission of alarms from automatic fire-extinguishing systems. 
904.5 Wet-chemical systems. Wet-chemical extinguishing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance with California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and NFPA 17A and their listing. 
904.5.1 System test. Systems shall be inspected and tested for proper operation at six-month intervals. Tests shall include a check of the detection system, alarms and releas­ing devices, including manual stations and other associ­ated equipment. Extinguishing system units shall be weighed and the required amount of agent verified. Stored pressure-type units shall be checked for the required pres­sure. The carttidge of cartridge-operated units shall be weighed and replaced at intervals indicated by the manu­facturer. 
904.5.2 Fusible link maintenance. Fixed temperature­sensing elements shall be maintained to ensure proper operation of the system. 
904.6 Dry-chemical systems. Dry-chemical extinguishing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance with California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and NFPA 17 and their listing. 
904.6.1 System test. Systems shall be inspected and tested for proper operation at six-month intervals. Tests shall 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
include a check of the detection system, alarms and releas­ing devices, including manual stations and other associ­ated equipment. Extinguishing system units shall be weighed, and the required amount of agent verified. Stored pressure-type units shall be checked for the required pres­sure. The cartridge of cartridge-operated units shall be weighed and replaced at intervals indicated by the manu­facturer. 
904.6.2 Fusible link maintenance. Fixed temperature­sensing elements shall be maintained to ensure proper operation of the system. 
904.7 Foam systems. Foam-extinguishing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Divi­sion 1, Chapter 5 and NFPA 11 and NFPA 16 and their list­ing. 
904.7.1 System test. Foam-extinguishing systems shall be inspected and tested at intervals in accordance California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5. 
904.8 Carbon dioxide systems. Carbon dioxide extinguish­ing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and NFPA 12 and their listing. 
904.8.1 System test. Systems shall be inspected and tested for proper operation at 12-month intervals. 
904.8.2 High-pressure cylinders. High-pressure cylin­ders shall be weighed and the date of the last hydrostatic test shall be verified at six-month intervals. Where a con­tainer shows a loss in original content of more than 10 per­cent, the cylinder shall be refilled or replaced. 
904.8.3 Low-pressure containers. The liquid-level gauges of low-pressure containers shall be observed at one-week intervals. Where a container shows a content loss of more than 10 percent, the container shall be refilled to maintain the minimum gas requirements. 
904.8.4 System hoses. System hoses shall be examined at 12-month intervals for damage. Damaged hoses shall be replaced or tested. At five-year intervals, all hoses shall be tested. 
904.8.4.1 Test procedure. Hoses shall be tested at not less than 2,500 pounds per square inch (psi) (17 238 kPa) for high-pressure systems and at not less than 900 psi (6206 kPa) for low-pressure systems. 
904.8.5 Auxiliary equipment. Auxiliary and supplemen­tary components, such as switches, door and window releases, interconnected valves, damper releases and sup­plementary alarms, shall be manually operated at 12­month intervals to ensure that such components are in proper operating condition. 
904.9 Halon systems. Halogenated extinguishing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and NFP A 12A and their listing. 
904.9.1 System test. Systems shall be inspected and tested for proper operation at 12-month intervals. 
904.9.2 Containers. The extinguishing agent quantity and pressure of containers shall be checked at six-month inter­vals. Where a container shows a loss in original weight of more than 5 percent or a loss in original pressure (adjusted for temperature) of more than 10 percent, the container shall be refilled or replaced. The weight and pressure of the container shall be recorded on a tag attached to the container. 
904.9.3 System hoses. System hoses shall be examined at 12-month intervals for damage. Damaged hoses shall be replaced or tested. At five-year intervals, all hoses shall be tested. 
904.9.3.1 Test procedure. For Halon 1301 systems, hoses shall be tested at not less than 1,500 psi (10 343 kPa) for 600 psi (4137 kPa) charging pressure systems and not less than 900 psi (6206 kPa) for 360 psi (2482 kPa) charging pressure systems. For Halon 1211 hand­hose line systems, hoses shall be tested at 2,500 psi (17 238 kPa) for high-pressure systems and 900 psi (6206 kPa) for low-pressure systems. 
904.9.4 Auxiliary equipment. Auxiliary and supplemen­tary components, such as switches, door and window releases, interconnected valves, damper releases and sup­plementary alarms, shall be manually operated at 12­month intervals to ensure such components are in proper operating condition. 
904.10 Clean-agent systems. Clean-agent fire-extinguishing systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and NFPA 2001 and their list­ing. 
904.10.1 System test. Systems shall be inspected and tested for proper operation at 12-month intervals. 
904.10.2 Containers. The extinguishing agent quantity and pressure of the containers shall be checked at six­month intervals. Where a container shows a loss in origi­nal weight of more than 5 percent or a loss in original pressure, adjusted for temperature, of more than 10 per­cent, the container shall be refilled or replaced. The weight and pressure of the container shall be recorded on a tag attached to the container. 
904.10.3 System hoses. System hoses shall be examined at 12-month intervals for damage. Damaged hoses shall be replaced or tested. All hoses shall be tested at five-year intervals. 
<

904.11 Commercial cooking systems. Commercial cooking equipment that produce grease laden vapors shall be pro­vided with a Type 1 Hood, in accordance with the California Mechanical Code, and an automatic fire extinguishing system that is listed and labeled for its intended use as follows: 
1. Wet chemical extinguishing systems, complying with UL 
300. 
2. Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems, 
3. 	Automatic fire sprinkler systems. 
All existing dry chemical and wet chemical extinguish­ing systems shall comply with UL 300, 
Exception: Public schools kitchens, without deep-fat fryers, shall be upgraded to a UL 300 compliant system during state-funded modernization projects that are under the jurisdiction ofthe Division ofthe State Archi­tect. 
All systems shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code, appropriate adopted stan­dards, their listing and the manufacturers' installation instructions. 
Exception: Factory-built commercial cooking recircu­lating systems that are tested, listed, labeled and installed in accordance with UL 710B and the Califor­
nia Mechanical Code. 

> 
904.11.1 Manual system operation. A manual actuation device shall be located at or near a means of egress from the cooking area a minimum of 10 feet (3048 mm) and a maximum of 20 feet (6096 mm) from the kitchen exhaust system. The manual actuation device shall be installed not more than 48 inches (1200 mm) nor less than 42 inches (1067 mm) above the floor and shall clearly identify the hazard protected. The manual actuation shall require a maximum force of 40 pounds (178 N) and a maximum movement of 14 inches (356 mm) to actuate the fire sup­pression system. 
Exception: Automatic sprinkler systems shall not be required to be equipped with manual actuation means. 

904.11.2 System interconnection. The actuation of the fire extinguishing system shall automatically shut down the fuel or electrical power supply to the cooking equip­ment. The fuel and electrical supply reset shall be manual. 
904.11.3 Carbon dioxide systems. When carbon dioxide systems are used, there shall be a nozzle at the top of the ventilating duct. Additional nozzles that are symmetrically arranged to give uniform distribution shall be installed within vertical ducts exceeding 20 feet (6096 mm) and horizontal ducts exceeding 50 feet (15 240 mm). Dampers shall be installed at either the top or the bottom of the duct and shall be arranged to operate automatically upon acti­vation of the fire-extinguishing system. When the damper is installed at the top of the duct, the top nozzle shall be immediately below the damper. Automatic carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing systems shall be sufficiently sized to protect all hazards venting through a common duct simul­taneously. 
904.11.3.1 Ventilation system. Commercial-type cooking equipment protected by an automatic carbon dioxide extinguishing system shall be arranged to shut off the ventilation system upon activation. 

904.11.4 Special provisions for automatic sprinkler sys­tems. Automatic sprinkler systems protecting commer­cial-type cooking equipment shall be supplied from a separate, readily accessible, indicating-type control valve that is identified. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
904.11.4.1 Listed sprinklers. Sprinklers used for the protection of fryers shall be tested in accordance with UL 199E, listed for that application and installed in accordance with their listing. 

904.11.5 Portable fire extinguishers for commercial cook­ing equipment. Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided < 
and maintained in accordance with California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, 
§573(a) through (c)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Commercial Cooking Operations. 
(a) 
Fire extinguishers with a Class K rating shall be pro­vided for hazards where there is a potential for fires involving combustible cooking media (vegetable or animal oils and fats). 

(b) 
Maximum travel distance shall not exceed 30 feet (9.15 m) from the hazard to the extinguishers. 

(c) 
Additional fire extinguishers, required for the control of other classes offires, shall be provided for commercial cooking areas as required by California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Section 567. 


904.11.5.1 Portable fire extinguishers for solid fuel cooking appliances. All solid fuel cooking appliances, whether or not under a hood, with fireboxes 5 cubic feet (0.14 m3) or less in volume shall have a minimum 2.5-gallon (9 L) or two 1.5-gallon (6 L) Class K wet­chemical portable fire extinguishers located in accor­dance with Section 904.11.5. 
904.11.5.2 Class K portable fire extinguishers for deep fat fryers. When hazard areas include deep fat fryers, listed Class K portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3 and as fol­lows: 
1. 	
For up to four fryers having a maximum cooking medium capacity of 80 pounds (36.3 kg) each: one Class K portable fire extinguisher of a mini­mum 1.5-gallon ( 6 L) capacity. 

2. 	
For every additional group of four fryers having a maximum cooking medium capacity of 80 pounds (36.3 kg) each: one additional Class K portable fire extinguisher of a minimum 1.5-gal­lon (6 L) capacity shall be provided. 

3. 	
For individual fryers exceeding 6 square feet 


(0.55 m2) in surface area: Class K portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in accordance with the extinguisher manufacturer's recommen­dations. 

904.11.6 Operations and maintenance. Automatic fire­extinguishing systems protecting commercial cooking sys­tems shall be maintained in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5 and this section. 
904.11.6.1 Existing automatic fire-extinguishing sys­tems. Where changes in the cooking media, positioning of cooking equipment or replacement of cooking equip­
147 

ment occur in existing commercial cooking systems, the automatic fire-extinguishing system shall be required to comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 904.11 through 904.11.4. 
904.11.6.2 Extinguishing system service. Automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be serviced at least every six months and after activation of the system. Inspection shall be by qualified individuals, and a cer­tificate of inspection shall be forwarded to the fire code official upon completion. 
904.11.6.3 Fusible link and sprinkler head replace­ment. Fusible links and automatic sprinkler heads shall be replaced at least annually, and other protection devices shall be serviced or replaced in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 
Exception: Frangible bulbs are not required to be replaced annually. 
SECTION 905 
STANDPIPE SYSTEMS 


905.1 General. Standpipe systems shall be provided in new buildings and structures in accordance with this section. Fire hose threads used in connection with standpipe systems shall be approved and shall be compatible with fire department hose threads. The location of fire department hose connec­tions shall be approved. In buildings used for high-piled com­bustible storage, fire protection shall be in accordance with Chapter 32. 
905.2 Installation standard. Standpipe systems shall be installed in accordance with this section and NFP A 14 as amended in Chapter 47. 
905.3 Required Installations. Standpipe systems shall be installed where required by Sections 905.3.1 through 
905.3.10.1. Standpipe systems are allowed to be combined with automatic sprinkler systems. 
Exception: Standpipe systems are not required in Group R-3 occupancies. 
905.3.1 Height. In other than Group R-3 and R-3.1 occu­pancies, Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout at each floor where any ofthe following occur: 
1. 	Buildings where the floor level of the highest story is located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. 
2. 	Buildings that are four or more stories in height. 
3. 	Buildings where the floor level of the lowest story is located more than 30 feet (9144mm) below the highest level of fire department vehicle access. 
4. 	Buildings that are two or more stories below the high­est level offire department vehicle access. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Class I standpipes are allowed in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 
903.3.1.2. 

2. 	
Class I manual standpipes are allowed in open parking garages where the highest floor is located not more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. 

3. 	
Class I manual dry standpipes are allowed in open parking garages that are subject to freezing temperatures, provided that the hose connections are located as required for Class II standpipes in accordance with Section 905.5. 

4. 
Class 	I standpipes are allowed in basements equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system. 

5. 	
In determining the lowest level of fire department vehicle access, it shall not be required to con­sider: 


5.1. Recessed loading docks for four vehicles or less, and 
5.2. Conditions 	where topography makes access from the fire department vehicle to the building impractical or impossible. 

905.3.2 Group A. Class I automatic wet standpipes shall be provided in nonsprinklered Group A buildings having an occupant load exceeding 1,000 persons. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Open-air-seating spaces without enclosed spaces. 

2. 	
Class I automatic dry and semiautomatic dry standpipes or manual wet standpipes are allowed in buildings that are not high-rise buildings. 


905.3.3 Covered and open mall buildings. Covered mall and open mall buildings shall be equipped throughout with a standpipe system where required by Section 905.3.1. Mall buildings not required to be equipped with a stand­pipe system by Section 905.3.1 shall be equipped with Class I hose connections connected to the automatic sprin­kler system sized to deliver water at 250 gallons per min­ute (946.4 L/min) at the most hydraulically remote hose connection while concurrently supplying the automatic sprinkler system demand. The standpipe system shall be designed not to exceed a 50 pounds per square inch (psi) (345 kPa) residual pressure loss with a flow of 250 gallons per minute (946.4 L/min) from the fire department con­nection to the hydraulically most remote hose connection. Hose connections shall be provided at each of the follow­ing locations: 
1. 	
Within the mall at the entrance to each exit passage­way or cotTidor. 

2. 	
At each floor-level landing within enclosed stair­ways opening directly on the mall. 

3. 	
At exterior public entrances to the mall of a covered mall building. 

4. 	
At public entrances at the perimeter line of an open mall building. 

5. 	
At other locations as necessary so that the distance to reach all portions of a tenant space does not 


exceed 200 feet (60 960 mm) from a hose connec­tion. 
905.3.4 Stages. Stages greater than 1,000 square feet (93 m2) in area shall be equipped with a Class III wet stand­pipe system with 11/ 2-inch and 21/ 2-inch (38 mm and 64 mm) hose connections on each side of the stage. 
Exception: Where the building or area is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system, a 11 
/2 
inch (38 mm) hose connection shall be installed in 
accordance with NFP A 13 or in accordance with NFP A 
14 for Class II or III standpipes. 
905.3.4.1 Hose and cabinet. The 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) hose connections shall be equipped with sufficient lengths of 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) hose to provide fire pro­tection for the stage area. Hose connections shall be equipped with an approved adjustable fog nozzle and be mounted in a cabinet or on a rack. 
905.3.5 Underground buildings. Underground buildings shall be equipped throughout with a Class I automatic wet or manual wet standpipe system. 
905.3.6 Helistops and heliports. Buildings with a rooftop helistop or heliport shall be equipped with a Class I or III standpipe system extended to the roof level on which the helistop or heliport is located in accordance with Section 2007.5. 
905.3.7 Marinas and boatyards. Standpipes in marinas and boatyards shall comply with Chapter 36. 
905.3.8 Rooftop gardens and landscaped roofs. Build­ings or structures that have rooftop gardens or landscaped roofs and that are equipped with a standpipe system shall have the standpipe system extended to the roof level on which the rooftop garden or landscaped roof is located. 
905.3.9 Smokeproof enclosures. For smokeproof enclo­sures, see Section 909.20. 
905.3.10 Group 1-3. Housing units within cell complexes 

II 
where 50 or more inmates are restrained shall be pro­vided with Class I wet standpipes. In addition, Class I wet standpipes shall be located so that it will not be necessary to extend hose lines through interlocking security doors and any doors in smoke-barrier walls, horizontal fire walls orfire barrier walls. Standpipes located in cell com­plexes may be placed in secured pipe chases. 
905.3.11 Fixed guideway transit systems. Underground stations shall be provided with a Class Ill standpipe sys­tem designed to comply with the following: 
I. Automatically supply 65 pounds per square 	inch (psi) for each outlet. 
2. 	Supply a 250 gallons per minute (gpm) (946 Um) flow to each of the two most remote 2112 inch (64 mm) outlets when pressurized through the fire department connection( s ). 
905.3.11.1 All other stations shall be provided with a 

II 
Class I manual wet standpipe system; a manual dry 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
Class I standpipe system may be allowed in areas sub­ject to freezing. 
Exception: Open at-grade stations with unrestricted fire department access need not be provided with a standpipe system. 

905.4 Location of Class I standpipe hose connections. Class I standpipe hose connections shall be provided in all of the following locations: 
1. 	In every required stairway, a hose connection shall be provided for each floor level above or below grade. Hose connections shall be located at an intermediate floor level landing between floors, unless otherwise approved by the fire code official. See Section 
909.20.3.2 for additional provisions in smokeproof enclosures. 

2. 	
On each side of the wall adjacent to the exit opening of a horizontal exit. 

Exception: Where floor areas adjacent to a horizon­tal exit are reachable from exit stairway hose con­nections by a nozzle attached to 100 feet (30 480 mm) of hose, as measured along the path oftravel, a < hose connection shall not be required at the horizon­tal exit. 

3. 	
In every exit passageway, at the entrance from the exit passageway to other areas of a building. 

Exception: Where floor areas adjacent to an exit passageway are reachable from exit stairway hose connections by a 30-foot (9144 mm) hose stream from a nozzle attached to 100 feet (30 480 mm) of hose, a hose connection shall not be required at the entrance from the exit passageway to other areas of the building. 

4. 	
In covered mall buildings, adjacent to each exterior public entrance to the mall and adjacent to each entrance from an exit passageway or exit corridor to the mall. In open mall buildings, adjacent to each public entrance to the mall at the perimeter line and adjacent to each entrance from an exit passageway or exit corri­dor to the mall. 


5. 	
Where the roof has a slope less than four units vertical in 12 units horizontal (33.3-percent slope), a hose con­nection shall be located to serve the roof or at the high­est landing of a stairway with stair access to the roof provided in accordance with Section 1009.16. 

6. 	
Where the most remote portion of a nonsprinklered floor or story is more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) from a hose connection or the most remote portion of a sprin­klered floor or story is more than I 50 feet ( 45 720 mm) from a hose connection, the fire code official is autho­rized to require that additional hose connections be pro­vided in approved locations. The distances from a hose connection shall be measured along the path oftravel. 


905.4.1 Protection. Risers and laterals of Class I stand­pipe systems not located within an enclosed stairway or pressurized enclosure shall be protected by a degree of fire resistance equal to that required for vertical enclosures in the building in which they are located. 
Exception: In buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system, laterals that are not located within an enclosed stairway or pressurized enclosure are not required to be enclosed within fire­resistance-rated construction. 
905.4.2 Interconnection. In buildings where more than one standpipe is provided, the standpipes shall be inter­connected in accordance with NFPA 14. 
905.5 Location of Class II standpipe hose connections. Class II standpipe hose connections shall be accessible and shall be located so that all portions of the building are within 30 feet (9144 mm) of a listed variable stream fog nozzle attached to 100 feet (30 480 mm) of hose. 
905.5.1 Groups A-1 and A-2. In Group A-1 and A-2 occupancies with occupant loads of more than 1,000, hose connections shall be located on each side of any stage, on each side of the rear of the auditorium, on each side of the balcony, and on each tier of dressing rooms. 
905.5.2 Protection. Fire-resistance-rated protection of ris­ers and laterals of Class II standpipe systems is not required. 
905.5.3 Class II system l-inch hose. A minimum l-inch (25 mm) hose shall be allowed to be used for hose stations in light-hazard occupancies where investigated and listed for this service and where approved by the fire code offi­cial. 
905.6 Location of Class III standpipe hose connections. Class III standpipe systems shall have hose connections located as required for Class I standpipes in Section 905.4 and shall have Class II hose connections as required in Sec­tion 905.5. 
905.6.1 Protection. Risers and laterals of Class III stand­pipe systems shall be protected as required for Class I sys­tems in accordance with Section 905.4.1. 
905.6.2 Interconnection. In buildings where more than one Class III standpipe is provided, the standpipes shall be interconnected in accordance with NFPA 14. 
905.7 Cabinets. Cabinets containing fire-fighting equipment, such as standpipes, fire hose, fire extinguishers or fire depart­ment valves, shall not be blocked from use or obscured from view. 
905.7.1 Cabinet equipment identification. Cabinets shall be identified in an approved manner by a permanently attached sign with letters not less than 2 inches (51 mm) high in a color that contrasts with the background color, indicating the equipment contained therein. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Doors not large enough to accommodate a writ­ten sign shall be marked with a permanently attached pictogram of the equipment contained therein. 
2. 	Doors that have either an approved visual identi­fication clear glass panel or a complete glass door panel are not required to be marked. 
905.7.2 Locking cabinet doors. Cabinets shall be unlocked. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Visual identification panels of glass or other approved transparent frangible material that is easily broken and allows access. 

2. 	
Approved locking arrangements. 

3. 	
Group I-3 occupancies. 


905.8 Dry standpipes. Dry standpipes shall not be installed. 
Exception: Where subject to freezing and in accordance with NFP A 14. 
905.9 Valve supervision. Valves controlling water supplies shall be supervised in the open position so that a change in the normal position of the valve will generate a supervisory signal at the supervising station required by Section 903.4. Where a fire alarm system is provided, a signal shall also be transmitted to the control unit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Valves to underground key or hub valves in road­way boxes provided by the municipality or public utility do not require supervision. 

2. 	
Valves locked in the normal position and inspected as provided in this code in buildings not equipped with a fire alarm system. 


905.10 During construction. Standpipe systems required during construction and demolition operations shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 3313. 
905.11 Existing buildings. Where required in Chapter 11, existing structures shall be equipped with standpipes installed in accordance with Section 905. 
SECTION 906 
PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS 

906.1 Where required. Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in the following locations. 
1. 	In new and existing Group A, B, E, F, H, I, L, M, R-1, R-2, R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4 and S occupancies. 
Exception: In Group R-2 occupancies, portable fire extinguishers shall be required only in locations specified in Items 2 through 6 where each dwelling unit is provided with a portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 1-A:lO-B:C. 
2. 	
Within 30 feet (9144 mm) of commercial cooking equipment. 

3. 	
In areas where flammable or combustible liquids are stored, used or dispensed. 

4. 	
On each floor of structures under construction, except Group R-3 occupancies, in accordance with Section 3315.1. 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
5. 	
Where required by the sections indicated in Table 

6. 	
Special-hazard areas, including but not limited to labo­ratories, computer rooms and generator rooms, where required by the fire code official. 


906.1. 
7. 	
Large and small family day-care homes shall be equipped with a portable fire extinguisher having a minimum 2-A:IO-B:C rating. 

8. 	
Where required by California Code of Regulations, 



Title I9, Division I. [California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.29(a) through (d)] Portable Fire Extinguishing Equip­
ment. 
(a) 
General. Portable fire extinguishers conforming to the requirements of California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Chapter 3, shall be installed and maintained in accordance with guides established therein. 

(b) 
Special Coverage. Additional Class A, Band C units of adequate extinguishing potential shall be provided for any other hazard, as determined by the enforcing agency. 

(c) 
Group A Occupancies. 

(I) 
One additional Class 2-A unit shall be provided in Group A Occupancies as follows: 

(A) 
On each side ofthe stage or platform. 

Exception: Platforms 1000 square feet or less in area need have only one such extinguishing unit. 

(B) 
On each side ofevery fly gallery. 

(C) 
In basements beneath the stage or platform. 

(D) 
In every hallway or passageway leading to a dressing room. 

(E) 
In every property room, carpenter shop, or simi­lar workroom. 

(2) 
Not less than one 10-B.·C unit (not less than 4-B:C for existing extinguishers in existing occupancies) shall be provided: 

(A) 
For each motor and fan room. 

(B) 
Adjacent to each switchboard on the stage or platform. 

(C) 
For each motion picture machine in projection 


rooms. Exception: One 20-B:C unit (not less than 8­
B:C for existing extinguishers in existing occu­pancies) in each projection room may be accepted as providing substantially equal protec­tion. 
(3) 
The enforcing agency may allow modifications or deviations relative to the number and location ofporta­ble fire extinguishers as required by this section pro­vided such authority finds that the basic intent of this section and the ease of accessibility to extinguishers is otherwise achieved. 

(d) 
Group R-2.I, R-3.I and R-4 Occupancies. In Group R­2.I, R-3.I and R-4 occupancies, a continuously attached 



TABLE 906.1 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS 


SECTION  SUBJECT  
303.5  Asphalt kettles  
307.5  Open burning  
308.1.3  Open flames-torches  
309.4  Powered industrial trucks  
2005.2  Aircraft towing vehicles  
2005.3  Aircraft welding apparatus  
2005.4  Aircraft fuel-servicing tank vehicles  
2005.5  Aircraft hydrant fuel-servicing vehicles  
2005.6  Aircraft fuel-dispensing stations  
2007.7  Heliports and helistops  
2108.4  Dry cleaning plants  
2305.5  Motor fuel-dispensing facilities  
2310.6.4  Marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities  
2311.6  Repair garages  
2404.4.1  Spray-finishing operations  
2405.4.2  Dip-tank operations  
2406.4.2  Powder-coating areas  
2804.3  Lumberyards/woodworking facilities  
2808.8  Recycling facilities  
2809.5  Exterior lumber storage  
2903.5  Organic-coating areas  
3006.3  Industrial ovens  
3104.12  Tents and membrane structures  
3206.1  Rack storage  
3315.1  Buildings under construction or demolition  
3317.3  Roofing operations  
3408.2  Tire rebuilding/storage  
3504.2.6  Welding and other hot work  
3604.4  Marinas  
5203.6  Combustible fibers  
5703.2.1  Flammable and combustible liquids, general  
5704.3.3.1  Indoor storage of flammable and combustible liquids  
5704.3.7.5.2  Liquid storage rooms for flammable and combustible liquids  
5705.4.9  Solvent distillation units  
5706.2.7  Farms and construction sites-flammable and combustible liquids storage  
5706.4.10.1  Bulk plants and terminals for flammable and combustible liquids  
5706.5.4.5  Commercial, industrial, governmental or manufac­turing establishments-fuel dispensing  
5706.6.4  Tank vehicles for flammable and combustible liquids  
5906.5.7  Flammable solids  
6108.2  LP-gas  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
garden hose, equipped with a water flow control nozzle, may be provided in lieu ofone or more required fire extin­guishers when acceptable to the enforcing agency. The location and length of such hose shall be as designated or approved by the enforcing agency. 
NOTE: It is recommended that, wherever possible, porta­ble fire extinguishers be located adjacent to manual fire alarm sending stations. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §565(a)] Selection ofFire Extinguishers. 
(a) The selection of extinguishers for a given situation shall be determined by the authority having jurisdiction in accordance with adopted codes or ordinances. The char­acter of the fires anticipated, the construction and occu­pancy of the individual property, the vehicle or hazard to be protected, ambient-temperature conditions, and other factors shall be considered. The number, size, placement, and limitations of use of extinguishers required shall be determined by using California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Sections 567 through 573. 
906.2 General requirements. Portable fire extinguishers shall be selected, installed and maintained in accordance with 
> 	this section and California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	The travel distance to reach an extinguisher shall not apply to the spectator seating portions of Group A-5 occupancies. 
> 2. 	Thirty-day inspections shall not be required for por­table fire extinguishers that are supervised by a listed and approved electronic monitoring device, provided that all of the following conditions are met: 
2.1. Electronic 	monitoring shall confirm that extinguishers are properly positioned, prop­erly charged and unobstructed. 
2.2. Loss 	of power or circuit continuity to the electronic monitoring device shall initiate a trouble signal. 
2.3. The extinguishers shall be installed inside of a building or cabinet in a noncorrosive envi­ronment. 
2.4. Electronic monitoring devices and supervi­

> 	sory circuits shall be tested when extin­guisher maintenance is performed. 
2.5. A written log 	of required hydrostatic test dates for extinguishers shall be maintained by the owner to verify that hydrostatic tests 

> 	are conducted at the frequency required by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3. 
3. 	In Group 1-3, portable fire extinguishers shall be permitted to be located at staff locations. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §565.1(a) through (c)] Classification ofHazards. 
(a) 
Light (Low) Hazard. Locations where the total amounts of Class A combustible materials, including fur­nishings, decorations and contents, is of minor quantity. These shall include buildings or rooms occupied as offices, classrooms, churches, assembly halls, etc. This classification anticipates that the majority of the contents are either noncombustible or so arranged that afire is not likely to spread rapidly. Small amounts of Class B flam­mables used for duplicating machines, art departments, etc., are included provided that they are kept in closed containers and safely stored. 

(b) 
Ordinary (Moderate) Hazard. Locations where the total amounts of Class A combustibles and Class B flam­mables are present in greater amounts than expected under Light (Low) Hazard occupancies. These occupan­cies could consist of offices, classrooms, mercantile shops and allied storage, light manufacturing, research opera­tions, auto showrooms, parking garages, workshop or support service areas ofLight (Low) Hazard occupancies, and warehouses containing Class I or Class II commodi­ties. 

(c) 
Extra (High) Hazard. Locations where the total amount of Class A combustibles and Class B flammables are present, in storage, production use, and/or finished product over and above those expected and classed as Ordinary (Moderate) Hazards. These occupancies could consist of woodworking, vehicle repair, aircraji and boat servicing, individual product display showrooms, product convention center displays, storage and manufacturing processes such as painting, dipping, coating, including flammable liquid handling. Also, included in warehousing of, or in-process storage ofother Class I and Class II com­modities. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §565.2(a) through (e)] Selection by Hazard. 
(a) 
Extinguishers shall be selected for the specific class or classes of hazards to be protected in accordance with the following subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e). 

(b) 
Extinguishers for protecting Class A hazards shall be selected from the following: Water-type, halogenated agent types, multipurpose dry chemical and wet chemical type. 

(c) 
Extinguishers for protection of Class B hazards shall be selected from the following: carbon dioxide, dry chemi­cal types, halogenated agent types, and water-type and water chemical extinguishers rated for Class B hazards. 

(d) 
Extinguishers for protection of Class C hazards shall be selected from the following: carbon dioxide, dry chemi­cal types, halogenated agent types, and water mist types rated for Class C. Carbon dioxide extinguishers equipped with metal horns are not considered safe for use on fires in energized electrical equipment and, therefore, are not classified for use on Class C hazards. 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
(e) Extinguishers and extinguishing agents for the protec­tion of Class D hazards shall be oftypes approved for use on the specific combustible metal hazard. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §566(a) through (j)] Application for Specific Hazards. 
(a) 
Class B Fire Extinguishers for Pressurized Flammable Liquids and Pressurized Gas Fires. Fires of this nature are considered to be a special hazard. Class B fire extin­guishers containing agents other than dry chemical are relatively ineffective on this type of hazard due to stream and agent characteristics. Selection of extinguishers for this type of hazard shall be made on the basis of recom­mendations by manufacturers of this specialized equip­ment. The system used to rate extinguishers on Class B fires (flammable liquids in depth) is not applicable to these types ofhazards. It has been determined that special nozzle design and rates of agent application are required to cope with such hazards. Caution: It is undesirable to attempt to extinguish this type offire unless there is rea­sonable assurance that the source offuel can be promptly shut off. 

(b) 
Fire extinguishers provided for the protection ofcook­ing appliances that use combustible cooking media (vege­table or animal oils and fats) shall be listed and labeled Class Kfires. 


(c) 
Three-dimensional Class B Fires. A three-dimensional Class B fire involves Class B materials in motion such as pouring, running or dripping flammable liquids and gen­erally includes vertical as well as one or more horizontal suifaces. Fires of this nature are considered to be a spe­cial hazard. Selection ofextinguishers for this type ofhaz­ard shall be made on the basis of recommendations by manufacturers of this specialized equipment. The system used to rate extinguishers on Class B fires (flammable liq­uids in depth) is not directly applicable to this type ofhaz­ard. 

(d) 
Water Soluble Flammable Liquid Fires (Polar Sol­vents). Extinguishers used for the protection ofwater solu­ble flammable liquids, such as alcohols, acetones, esters, ketones, etc., shall be selected in accordance with Section 


565.2. AFFF-type and FFFP-type fire extinguishers shall not be used for the protection of water soluble flammable liquids, such as alcohols, acetone, esters, ketones, etc., unless specifically referenced on the extinguisher name­plate. 
(e) 
Electronic Equipment Fires. Extinguishers for the pro­tection of delicate electronic equipment shall be selected from the following: carbon dioxide type or a halogenated agent type, or a distilled water mist type with a minimum Class A:C Rating. 

(f) 
In patient care areas and sleeping rooms ofhealth care facilities, fire extinguishers, including the agents and expelling means, should be selected and utilized that would not be detrimental to patients and are appropriate for the type offire expected, such as distilled water mist type fire extinguishers with a minimum 2-A:C rating. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.8]1nstallation Temperatures. 
Water-type (water, AFFF, FFFP) extinguishers shall not be installed in areas where temperatures are outside the range of 40°F to l20°F (4°C to 49°C). Other types shall not be installed in areas where temperatures are outside the range of -40°F to l20°F (-40°C to 49°C). Fire extinguishers shall not be exposed to temperatures outside ofthe range shown on the fire extinguisher label. 
Exceptions: 
I. 	Where fire extinguishers are installed in locations sub­ject to temperatures outside these ranges, they shall be of a type approved and listed for the temperature to which they are exposed, or they shall be placed in an enclosure capable of maintaining the stipulated tem­perature range. 
2. 	
Fire extinguishers containing plain water only can be protected to temperatures as low as -40°F (-40°C) by the addition of an antifreeze stipulated on the extin­guisher nameplate. Calcium chloride solutions shall not be used in stainless steel fire extinguishers. 

3. 	
Some fire extinguishers are approved or listed for use at temperatures as low as -65°F (-54°C). 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §574.1] Frequency ofInspection. 
Fire extinguishers shall be manually inspected when initially placed in service. Thereafter, extinguishers shall be manually inspected at least monthly by the building owner, occupant, or his/her authorized agent, or electronically monitored. Fire extinguishers shall be inspected at more frequent intervals when circumstances require, as determined by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §574.2] Inspection Procedures. 
(a) 
In addition to California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 574.1, fire extinguishers shall be man­ually inspected in accordance with this section if they are located where any ofthe following conditions exist: 

(
1) High frequency offires in the past. 

(2) 
Extra (high) hazard areas. 

(
3) Location that makes fire extinguishers susceptible to mechanical or physical damage. 

(4) 
Exposure to abnormal temperatures or corrosive atmospheres. 


(b) 
Manual inspection of extinguishers shall include a check ofat least the following items: 

(
1) Located in designated place. 

(2) 
No obstruction to access or visibility. 

(
3) Operating instructions on nameplate legible and facing outward. 

(4) 
Safety seals and tamper indicators not broken or missing. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(5) 
Examine for obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage or clogged nozzle. 

(6) 
Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position. 

(7) 
Fullness determined by weighing or hefting. 

(8) 
For wheeled units, the condition of tires, wheels, carriage, hose, and nozzle shall also be checked. 

(9) 
For nonrechargeable extinguishers using push-to­test pressure indicators, test the indicator. 

(c) 
Electronic monitoring shall include monitoring of the following items: 

(
1) Located in the designated place. 

(2) 
No obstruction to access or visibility. 

(
3) Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable 


range or position. [California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.1] Operating Conditions. 
Portable extinguishers shall be maintained in a fully charged and operable condition, and kept in their designated places at all times when they are not being used. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §574.3] Corrective Action. 
When an inspection of any extinguisher reveals a deficiency in any ofthe conditions listed in Title 19, Division 1, Sections 574.2(b)(c), immediate corrective action shall be taken. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §574.4] Nonrechargeable Extinguishers. 
When an inspection ofany nonrechargeable fire extinguisher reveals a deficiency in any ofthe conditions listed in ( 3 ), ( 4 ), (5), (6), (7) or (9) of Title 19, Division 1, Section 574.2(b), it shall be discharged and removed from service. 
Exception: Nonrechargeable extinguishers containing a halon agent shall be removed from service, not dis­charged, and returned to the manufacturer or local fire extinguisher distributor having the capability of recover­ing the halon agent. 
[Califomia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §575.10] Out ofService. 
Fire extinguishers removed from service for maintenance or recharge shall be replaced by fire extinguishers suitable for the type of hazard protected and shall be ofat least equal rat­ing. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §591.5] Replacement Extinguishers. 
Portable fire extinguishers shall not be removed from the premises for hydrostatic testing or any other purpose, without first replacing the extinguisher with a unit rated for the haz­ard being protected. The customer's original unit shall be returned within 60 calendar days. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §596.7(a) and (b)] Removal of Tag. 
(a) No person shall remove any tag, collar or label required by Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3, Article 9 from a portable fire extinguisher except when service is per­formed. 
(b) No person shall deface, modify, or alter any tag collar or label required by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3, Article 9 to be attached to any portable fire extinguisher. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §574.5(a) through (c)] Inspection Record Keeping. 
(a) 
The fire extinguisher owner shall maintain records of all fire extinguishers inspected, including those extin­guishers that were found to require corrective actions. Records shall be maintained until next required mainte­nance. 

(b) 
At least monthly, the date the manual inspection was performed and the initials of the person pe1jorming the inspection shall be recorded on a tag or label attached to the fire extinguisher, or an inspection checklist maintained on file, or an electronic system (e.g., bar coding) that pro­vides a permanent record. 

(c) 
Fire extinguishers being inspected via electronic moni­toring, whereby the extinguisher causes a signal at a con­trol unit when a deficiency in any of the conditions listed in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 574.2( c) occurs, shall provide record keeping in the form ofan electronic event log at the control panel. 


906.2.1 Certification of service personnel for portable fire extinguishers. Service personnel providing or con­ducting maintenance on portable fire extinguishers shall possess a valid certificate issued by an approved govern­mental agency, or other approved organization for the type of work performed. 
906.3 Size and distribution. The size and distribution of por­table fire extinguishers shall be in accordance with Sections 
906.3.1 through 906.3.4. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567(a) through (k)] Distribution ofFire Extinguishers. 
(a) 
The minimum number offire extinguishers needed to protect a property shall be determined as outlined in this section. Additional extinguishers may be installed to pro­vide more suitable protection. 

(b) 
Fire extinguishers shall be provided for the protection of both the building structure and the occupancy hazards contained therein. 

(c) 
Required building protection shall be provided by fire extinguishers suitable for Class Afires. 

(d) 
Occupancy hazard protection shall be provided by fire extinguishers suitable for such Class A, B, C, D or K fire potentials as may be present. 

(e) 
Extinguishers provided for building protection may be considered also for the protection ofoccupancies having a Class Afire potential. 

(f) 
Buildings having an occupancy hazard subject to Class B and/or Class C fires shall have a standard complement of Class A fire extinguishers for building protection, plus additional Class B and/or Class C extinguishers. Where 


fire extinguishers have more than one letter classification (such as 2-A:20-B:C), they may be considered to satisfy the requirements of each letter class. When using multi­purpose extinguishers for the protection of Class B haz­ards, the maximum travel distances described in Califor­nia Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568, Table 2 must be observed. 
(g) 
Rooms or areas shall be classified generally as light (low) hazard, ordinary (moderate) hazard, or extra (high) hazard. Limited areas of greater or lesser hazard shall be protected as required. 

(h) 
On each floor level, the area protected and the travel distances shall be based on fire extinguishers installed in accordance with California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568, Tables 2 and 3. 

(i) 
Fire extinguishers shall not be obstructed or obscured from view. 


Exception: In large rooms, and in certain locations where visual obstruction cannot be completely avoided, means shall be proved to indicate the fire extin­guisher's location. 
(j) 
Fire extinguishers shall be conspicuously located along normal paths of travel where they will be readily accessi­ble and immediately available in the event ofafire. 

(k) 
Where wheeled extinguishers are installed, aisles and doorways through which such extinguishers are to be moved shall have a clear and unobstructed width not less than one foot wider than the overall width of the extin­guisher. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §568(a) through (e)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement 
for Class A Hazards. 
(a) 
Minimum sizes of fire extinguishers for the listed grades of hazards shall be provided on the basis of Cali­fornia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568, Table 2, except as modified by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568(d). Extin­guishers shall be located so that the maximum travel dis­tances shall not exceed those specified in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568, Table 2, except as modified by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568(d). 

(b) 
Certain smaller fire extinguishers which are charged with a multipurpose dry chemical or halogenated agent are rated on Class B and Class Cfires, but having insuffi­cient effectiveness to earn the minimum 1-A rating even though they have value in extinguishing smaller Class A fires. They shall not be used to meet the requirements of California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Sec­tion 568, Table 2. 

(c) 
Extinguishers as specified in California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 568, Table 2 may be replaced by uniformly spaced 1 V2 inch (3.810 em) hose stations for use by the occupants of the building. When hose stations are so provided, they shall conform to Part 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
9, Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Chapter 9. The location of hose stations and the placement of fire extinguishers shall be in such a manner that the hose sta­tions do not replace more than every other extinguisher. 
(d) 
Where the floor area of a building is less than that specified in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Divi­sion 1, Section 568, Table 2, at least one extinguisher of the minimum size recommended shall be provided. 

(e) 
The protection requirements may be fulfilled with extinguishers of a higher rating provided the travel dis­tance from anywhere in the building to such larger extin­guishers shall not exceed 75 feet (22.7 m), as shown in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Sec­tion 568, Table 2 above. 


TITLE 19, DIVISION 1, SECTION 568, TABLE 2 

Light(Low) Hazard Occupancy  Ordinary (Moderate) Hazard Occupancy  Extra (High) Hazard Occupancy  
Minimum rated single extinguisher  2-A  2-A  4-A*  
Maximum floor area per unit ofA  3,000 square feet  1,500 square feet  1,000square feet  
Maximum floor area for extinguisher  11,250 square feet  11,250 square feet  11,250 square feet  
Maximum travel distance to extinguisher  75feet  75feet  75feet  

* Two 2112 gallon (9.46 L) water type extinguishers can be used to fulfill the requirement ofone 4-A rated extinguisher. 
Note: 	1 foot =0.305 m 1 square foot =0.0929 m2 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §569(a) through (c)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class B Fires Other than for Fires in Flammable Liq­uids ofAppreciable Depth. 
(a) 
Minimum sizes of fire extinguishers for the listed grades ofhazard shall be provided on the basis of Califor­nia Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 569, Table 3. Extinguishers shall be located so that the maxi­mum travel distances from anywhere in the building shall not exceed those specified in the table used. 

Exception: Extinguishers of lesser rating, desired for small specific hazards within the general hazard area, may be used, but shall not be considered as fulfilling any part ofthe requirements ofCalifornia Code ofReg­ulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 569, Table 3. 

(b) 
Two or more extinguishers oflower rating shall not be used to fulfill the protection requirements of California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 569, Table 3. 

(c) 
The protection requirements may be fulfilled with extinguishers of high ratings, provided the travel distance to such larger extinguishers shall not exceed 50 feet 


(15.25 m), as shown in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 569, Table 3. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §570(a) through (e)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class B Fires in Flammable Liquids of Appreciable Depth. 
(a) 
Portable fire extinguishers shall not be installed as the sole protection for flammable liquid hazards of apprecia­ble depth [greater than Y4 inch (0.64 em)] where the sur­face area exceeds IO square feet (0.93 m2). 

Exception: Where personnel who are trained in extin­guishing fires in the protected hazards are available on the premises, the maximum surface area shall not exceed 20 square feet. ( I.86 m2). 

(b) 
For flammable liquid hazards of appreciable depth, a Class B fire extinguisher shall be provided on the basis of at least two numerical units of Class B extinguishing potential per square feet (0.0929 m2) offlammable liquid surface of the largest hazard area. For fires involving cooking grease or water-soluble flammable liquids, see California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Sec­tion 566(b) and 566(d). 

Exception: AFFF-or FFFP-type extinguishers may be provided on the basis of a IB rating of protection per square foot ofhazard. 

(c) 
Two or more extinguishers of lower ratings shall not be used in lieu of the extinguisher required for the largest hazard area. 

Exception: Up to three AFFF or FFFP extinguishers may be used to fulfill the requirements provided the sum of the Class B ratings meets or exceeds the value required for the largest hazard area. 

(d) 
Travel distances for portable extinguishers shall not exceed 50 feet (15.25 m) as shown in California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Section 569, Table 3. 

(e) 
Scattered or widely separated hazards shall be individ­ually protected. An extinguisher in the proximity of a haz­ard shall be carefully located to be accessible in the presence ofafire without undue danger to the operator. 


TITLE 19, DIVISION 1, SECTION 569, TABLE 3 

Type ofHazard  Basic Minimum Extinguisher Rating  Maximum travel Distance to Extinguishers (in feet)  (in meters)  
Light (low)  5B JOB  30 50  9.J5 J5.25  
Ordinary (moderate)  JOB 20B  30 50  9.J5 J5.25  
Extra (high)  40B BOB  30 50  9.J5 15.25  

Note: 
1. The specified rating does not imply that fires of the magnitudes indicated by these ratings will occur, but rather to give the operators more time and agent to handle difficult spill fires that may occur. 
2. 	
For fires involving water soluble flammable liquids, see California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division], Section 566(d). 

3. 	
For specific hazard applications, see California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 566. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §571(a)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Class C Hazards. 
(a) Fire extinguishers with Class C ratings shall be required where energized electrical equipment can be encountered which would require a nonconducting extin­guishing medium. This requirement includes situations where fire either directly involves or surrounds electrical equipment. Since the fire itself is a Class A or Class B haz­ard, the fire extinguishers shall be sized and located on the basis ofthe anticipated Class A or Class B hazard. 
Note: Electrical equipment should be de-energized as soon as possible to prevent reigniting. 
906.3.1 Class A fire hazards. Portable fire extinguishers for occupancies that involve primarily Class A fire haz­ards, the minimum sizes and distribution shall comply with Table 906.3(1). 
TABLE 906.3(1) 
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR CLASS A FIRE HAZARDS 

LIGHT (Low) HAZARD OCCUPANCY  ORDINARY (Moderate) HAZARD OCCUPANCY  EXTRA (High)HAZARD OCCUPANCY  
Minimum rated single extinguisher  2-N  2-A  4-A"  
Maximum floor area per unit of A  3,000 square feet  1,500 square feet  1,000 square feet  
Maximum floor area for extinguisherb  11,250 square feet  11,250 square feet  11,250 square feet  
Maximum travel distance to extinguisher  75 feet  75 feet  75 feet  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 	
Two 21/2-gallon water-type extinguishers shall be deemed the equivalent of one 4-A rated extinguisher. 

b. 	
California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3 concerning application of the maximum floor area criteria. < 

c. 	
Two water-type extinguishers each with a 1-A rating shall be deemed the equivalent of one 2-A rated extinguisher for Light (Low) Hazard Occupancies. 


906.3.2 Class B fire hazards. Portable fire extinguishers for occupancies involving flammable or combustible liq­uids with depths of less than or equal to 0.25-inch (6.35 mm) shall be selected and placed in accordance with Table 906.3(2). 
Portable fire extinguishers for occupancies involving flammable or combustible liquids with a depth of greater than 0.25-inch (6.35 mm) shall be selected and placed in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Chapter 3. < 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
TABLE 906.3(2) 
FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS WITH 
DEPTHS OF LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO 0.25-INCHa 


TYPE OF HAZARD  BASIC MINIMUM EXTINGUISHER RATING  MAXIMUM TRAVEL DISTANCE TO EXTINGUISHERS (feet)  
Light (Low)  5-B 10-B  30 50  
Ordinary (Moderate)  10-B 20-B  30 50  
Extra (High)  40-B 80-B  30 50  

For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 foot = 304.8 mm. 
a. 	For requirements on water-soluble flammable liquids and alternative sizing criteria, see California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3. 
906.3.3 Class C fire hazards. Portable fire extinguishers for Class C fire hazards shall be selected and placed on the basis of the anticipated Class A or B hazard. 
906.3.4 Class D fire hazards. Portable fire extinguishers for occupancies involving combustible metals shall be selected and placed in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 3. 

906.4 Cooking grease fires. Fire extinguishers provided for the protection of cooking grease fires shall be of an approved type compatible with the automatic fire-extinguishing system agent and in accordance with Section 904.11.5. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §573(a) through (c)] Fire Extinguisher Size and Placement for Commercial Cooking Operations. 
(a)
 Fire extinguishers with a Class K rating shall be pro­vided for hazards where there is a potential for fires involving combustible cooking media (vegetable or animal oils and fats). 

(b)
 Maximum travel distance shall not exceed 30 feet (9.15 m) from the hazard to the extinguishers. 

(c)
 Additional fire extinguishers, required for the control of other classes of fires, shall be provided for commercial cooking areas as required by California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Section 567. 



906.5 Conspicuous location. Portable fire extinguishers shall be located in conspicuous locations where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. These locations shall be along normal paths of travel, unless the fire code official determines that the hazard posed indicates the need for placement away from normal paths of travel. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.5] Physical Damage Protection. 
Extinguishers installed under conditions where they are sub­ject to physical damage, (e.g., from impact, vibration, the environment) shall be adequately protected. 
906.6 Unobstructed and unobscured. Portable fire extin­guishers shall not be obstructed or obscured from view. In rooms or areas in which visual obstruction cannot be com­pletely avoided, means shall be provided to indicate the loca­tions of extinguishers. 
906.7 Hangers and brackets. Hand-held portable fire extin­guishers, not housed in cabinets, shall be installed on the hangers or brackets supplied. Hangers or brackets shall be securely anchored to the mounting surface in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.3] Installation. 
Portable fire extinguishers other than wheeled types shall be securely installed on the hanger or in the bracket supplied or placed in cabinets or wall recesses. The hanger or bracket shall be securely and properly anchored to the mounting sur­face in accordance with the manufacturer’s instruc­tions.Wheeled-type fire extinguishers shall be located in a designated location. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.4] Brackets. 
Extinguishers installed under conditions where they are sub­ject to dislodgement shall be installed in brackets specifically designed to cope with this problem. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.6] Mounting. 
Fire extinguishers having a gross weight not exceeding 40 pounds (18.14 kg) shall be installed so that the top of the fire extinguisher is not more than 5 feet (1.53 m) above the floor. Fire extinguishers having a gross weight greater than 40 pounds (18.14 kg) (except wheeled types) shall be so installed that the top of the fire extinguisher is not more than 31/2 feet 
(1.07 m) above the floor. In no case shall the clearance between the bottom of the extinguisher and the floor be less than 4 inches (10.2 cm). 
906.8 Cabinets. Cabinets used to house portable fire extin­guishers shall not be locked. 
Exceptions: 
1. 
Where portable fire extinguishers subject to mali­cious use or damage are provided with a means of ready access. 

2. 
In Group I-3 occupancies and in mental health areas in Group I-2 occupancies, access to portable fire extinguishers shall be permitted to be locked or to be located in staff locations provided the staff has keys. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.2] Cabinets. 
Cabinets housing extinguishers shall not be locked. 
Exception: Where extinguishers are subject to malicious use, locked cabinets may be used provided they include a means of emergency access and are approved by the authority having jurisdiction. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §567.7] Sealed Cabinets. 
Where extinguishers are installed in closed cabinets that are exposed to elevated temperatures, the cabinets shall be pro­vided with screened openings and drains. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
906.9 Extinguisher installation. The installation of portable fire extinguishers shall be in accordance with Sections 
906.9.1 through 906.9.3. 
906.9.1 Extinguishers weighing 40 pounds or less. Por­table fire extinguishers having a gross weight not exceed­ing 40 pounds (18 kg) shall be installed so that their tops are not more than 5 feet (1524 mm) above the floor. 
906.9.2 Extinguishers weighing more than 40 pounds. 
Hand-held portable fire extinguishers having a gross weight exceeding 40 pounds (18 kg) shall be installed so that their tops are not more than 3.5 feet (1067 mm) above the floor. 
906.9.3 Floor clearance. The clearance between the floor and the bottom of installed hand-held portable fire extin­guishers shall not be less than 4 inches (102 mm). 
906.10 Wheeled units. Wheeled fire extinguishers shall be conspicuously located in a designated location. 
SECTION 907 
FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS 

907.1 General. This section covers the application, installa­tion, performance and maintenance of fire alarm systems and their components in new and existing buildings and struc­tures. The requirements of Section 907.2 are applicable to new buildings and structures. The requirements of Section 
907.9 are applicable to existing buildings and structures. 
907.1.1 Construction documents. Construction docu­ments for fire alarm systems shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work pro­posed and show in detail that it will conform to the provi­sions of this code, the California Building Code, and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, as deter­mined by the fire code official. 
907.1.2 Fire alarm shop drawings. Shop drawings for fire alarm systems shall be submitted for review and approval prior to system installation, and shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following: 
1. 
A floor plan that indicates the use of all rooms. 

2. 	
Locations of alarm-initiating devices. 

3. 	
Locations of alarm notification appliances, includ­ing candela ratings for visible alarm notification appliances. 

4. 	
Location of fire alarm control unit, transponders and notification power supplies. 

5. 	
Annunciators. 

6. 	
Power connection. 

7. 
Battery calculations. 

8. 	
Conductor type and sizes. 

9. 
Voltage drop calculations. 

10. 	
Manufacturers’ data sheets indicating model num­bers and listing information for equipment, devices and materials. 

11. 	
Details of ceiling height and construction. 


12. 
The interface of fire safety control functions. 

13. 
Classification of the supervising station. 


14 	All plans and shop drawings shall use the symbols identified in NFPA 170, Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols. 
Exception: Other symbols are allowed where approved by the enforcing agency. 

907.1.3 Equipment. Systems and components shall be California State Fire Marshal listed and approved in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 for the purpose for which they are installed. 
907.1.4 Fire-walls and fire barrier walls. For the purpose of Section 907, fire walls and fire barrier walls shall not define separate buildings. 
907.1.5 Fire alarm use. A fire alarm system shall not be used for any purpose other than fire warning or mass noti­fication and where permitted by NFPA 72. 
907.2 Where required—new buildings and structures. An approved fire alarm system installed in accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72 shall be provided in new buildings and structures in accordance with Sections 
907.2.1 through 907.2.23 and provide occupant notification in accordance with Section 907.5, unless other requirements are provided by another section of this code. 
A minimum of one manual fire alarm box shall be pro­vided in an approved location to initiate a fire alarm signal for fire alarm systems employing automatic fire detectors or water-flow detection devices. Where other sections of this code allow elimination of fire alarm boxes due to sprinklers or automatic fire alarm systems, a single fire alarm box shall be installed at a location approved by the enforcing agency. 
Exceptions: 
1. 
The manual fire alarm box is not required for fire alarm control units dedicated to elevator recall con­trol, supervisory service and fire sprinkler monitor­ing. 

2. 
The manual fire alarm box is not required for Group R-2 occupancies unless required by the fire code official to provide a means for fire watch personnel to initiate an alarm during a sprinkler system impair­ment event. Where provided, the manual fire alarm box shall not be located in an area that is accessible to the public. 

3.
 The manual fire alarm box is not required to be installed when approved by the fire code official.   


907.2.1 Group A. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group A occupancies where the occupant load due to the assembly occupancy is 300 or more.  Group A occupancies not separated from one another in accordance with Section 707.3.10 of the California Building Code shall be considered as a single occupancy for the purposes of applying this section.  Por­tions of Group E occupancies occupied for assembly pur­poses with an occupant load of less than 1000 shall be 
BUFF 
provided with a fire alarm system as required for the GroupE occupancy. 
Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appli­ances will activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow. 
Every Group A building used for educational purposes shall be provided with a manual or automatic fire alarm system. This provision shall apply to, but shall not neces­sarily be limited to, every community college and univer­sity. 
Exception: Privately owned trade or vocational schools or any firm or company which provides educa­tional facilities and instructions for its employees. 
907.2.1.1 System initiation in Group A occupancies with an occupant load of 1,000 or more. Activation of the fire alarm in Group A occupancies with an occu­pant load of 1,000 or more shall initiate a signal using an emergency voice/alarm communications system in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. For Group A occu­pancies with an occupant load of 10,000 or more, see Section 907.2.1.3. 
Exception: Where approved, the prerecorded announcement is allowed to be manually deacti­vated for a period of time, not to exceed 3 minutes, for the sole purpose of allowing a live voice announcement from an approved, constantly attended location. 
907.2.1.2 Emergency voice/alarm communication system captions. Stadiums, arenas and grandstands required to caption audible public announcements shall be in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2.4. 
907.2.1.3 Public address system. Pursuant to Health 
and Safety Code Section 13108.9, for all buildings or structures constructed on or after July 1, 1991, which are intended for public assemblies of 10,000 or more persons, a public address system with an emergency backup power system shall be required. 
907.2.2 Group B. A manual fire alarm system shall be installed in Group B occupancies where one of the follow­ing conditions exists: 
1. 	
The combined Group B occupant load of all floors is 500 or more. 

2. 	
The Group B occupant load is more than 100 per­sons above or below the lowest level of exit dis­charge. 

3. 	
The fire area contains an ambulatory care facility. 


4. 	For Group B occupancies containing educational facilities, see Section 907.2.2.2. 
Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1 and the occupant notification appli-
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
ances will activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow. 
907.2.2.1 Ambulatory care facilities. Fire areas con­taining ambulatory care facilities shall be provided with an electronically supervised automatic smoke detection system installed within the ambulatory care facility and in public use areas outside of tenant spaces, including public corridors and elevator lobbies. 
Exception: Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3 .1.1 provided the occupant notification appliances will activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow. 
907.2.2.2 Group B Educational facilities. Hvery Group B building used for educational purposes shall be pro­vided with a manual or automatic fire alarm system. This provision shall apply to, but shall not necessarily be limited to, every community college and university. 
Exception: Privately owned trade or vocational schools or any firm or company which provides edu­cational facilities and instructions for its employees. 

907.2.3 Group E. A manual and automatic fire alarm sys­tem that initiates the occupant notification signal utilizing an emergency voice/alarm communication system meeting the requirements of Section 907.5.2.2 and installed in accordance with Section 907.6 shall be installed in Group E occupancies with an occupant load of 50 or more per­sons or containing more than one classroom or one or more rooms used for GroupE or 1-4 day care purposes in accordance with this section. When automatic sprinkler systems or smoke detectors are installed, such systems or detectors shall be connected to the building fire alarm sys­tem. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Group E occupancies where all of the following apply: 
1.1. 	Interior corridors are protected by smoke detectors. 
1.2. 	Auditoriums, cafeterias, gymnasiums and similar areas are protected by heat detec­tors or other approved detection devices. 
1.3. Shops and laboratories involving dusts or vapors are protected by heat detectors or other approved detection devices. 
1.4. The capability to activate the evacuation signal from a central point is provided. 
2. 	Manual fire alarm boxes shall not be required in Group E occupancies where the building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, the emergency voice/alarm communication system will activate on sprinkler water flow and manual activation is provided from a normally occupied location. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3. 	For public school state-funded construction proj­ects, see Section 907.2.29. 

907.2.3.1 System connection. Where more than one fire alarm control unit is used at the school campus, they shall be interconnected and shall operate all noti­fication appliances. 
Exception: Interconnection of fire alarm control 
units is not required when all of the following are 
provided: 
/. 	Buildings that are separated a minimum of 20 feet (6096 mm) and in accordance with the Cali­fornia Building Code; and 
2. 	
There is a method of two-way communication between each classroom and the school adminis­trative office approved by the fire enforcing agency; and 

3. 	
A method of manual activation ofeach fire alarm system is provided. 



907.2.3.2 Assemblies located within a Group E occu­pancy. Assembly occupancies with an occupant load of less than 1,000 and located within a Group E occu­pancy campus or building shall be provided with a fire alarm system as required for the Group E occupancy. 
907.2.3.3 Notification. The fire alarm system notifica­tion shall comply with the requirements of Section 
907.5. 
Exception: Emergency voice/alarm communication system is not required when existing facilities have other two-way communication, such as between classroom and administration office, when the com­munication system is approved by the authority hav­ing jurisdiction. 

907.2.3.4 Annunciation. Annunciation of the fire alarm system shall comply with the requirements of Section 907.6.3.1. 
907.2.3.5 Monitoring. School fire alarm systems shall be monitored in accordance with Section 907.6.5.2. 
907.2.3.6 Automatic fire alarm system. Automatic detection shall be provided in accordance with this sec­tion. 
907.2.3.6.1 Smoke detectors. Smoke detectors shall be installed at the ceiling of every room and in "ceiling-plenums" utilized for environmental air. Where the ceiling is attached directly to the under­side of the roof structure, smoke detectors shall be installed on the ceiling only. 
Exception: Where the environment or ambient conditions exceed smoke detector installation guidelines, heat detectors or fire sprinklers shall be used. 

907.2.3.6.2 Heat detectors. Heat detectors shall be installed in combustible spaces where sprinklers or smoke detectors are not installed. 
907.2.3. 7 Private schools. An automatic fire alarm sys-1 I tern shall be provided in new buildings of private schools. 
Exception: Automatic detection devices are not required where an approved automatic sprinkler system is installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appliances will activate on sprinkler water flow and manual activation is provided from a normally occupied location. 
907.2.3.8 Day care, Group E. 
II 

907.2.3.8.1 An automatic fire alarm system shall be provided in all buildings used as or containing a Group E day care. 
Exception: Automatic detection devices are not required where an approved automatic sprinkler system is installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appli­ances will activate on sprinkler water flow and manual activation is provided from a normally occupied location. 

907.2.3.8.2 Smoke detectors shall be installed in I I every room used for sleeping or napping. 
907.2.4 Group F. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group F occupancies where both of the following conditions exist: 
I. The Group F occupancy 	is two or more stories in height; and 
2. 	The Group F occupancy has a combined occupant load of 500 or more above or below the lowest level of exit discharge. 
Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appli­ances will activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow. 
907.2.5 Group H. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group H-5 occupancies and in occupancies used for the manufacture of organic coatings. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed for highly toxic gases, organic peroxides and oxi­dizers in accordance with Chapters 60, 62 and 63, respec­tively. 
907.2.5.1 Group H occupancies located above the 1Oth story. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be required on each side of the 2-hour fire-smoke barrier and at each exit above the lOth story. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

> 
> 
907.2.6 Group I. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group I occupancies. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 
907.5 shall be provided in accordance with Sections 907.2.6.1, 907.2.6.2 and 907.2.6.3.3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Large family day care. 
2. 	Occupant notification systems are not required to be activated where private mode signaling installed in accordance with NFPA 72 is approved by the fire code official. 
907.2.6.1 Group 1-1. Reserved. 
907.2.6.1.1 Smoke alarms. Single-and multiple­station smoke alarms shall be installed in accor­dance with Section 907 .2.11. 
907.2.6.2 Group 1-2 and Group I-2.1. A manual and automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in Group I-2 and I-2.1 occupancies. Where automatic fire sup­pression systems or smoke detectors are installed, such systems or detectors shall be connected to the building fire alarm system. 
Exception: Where an entire facility is used for the housing ofpersons, none ofwhom are physically or mentally handicapped or nonambulatory, and are between the ages of 18 and 64, the buildings or structures comprising such facility shall be exempt from the provisions ofthis subsection relating to the installation ofan automatic fire alarm system. 
907.2.6.2.1 Notification. The fire alarm notification system shall be in accordance with Section 
907.6.2.5. 
907.2.6.2.2 Automatic fire detection. Smoke detec­tors shall be provided in accordance with this sec­tion. 
1. 	
In patient and client sleeping rooms. Actuation of such detectors shall cause a visual display on the corridor side ofthe room in which the detector is located and shall cause an audible and visual alarm at the respective nurses' station. A nurse call system listed for this function is an accept­able means of providing the audible and visual alarm at the respective nurses' station and corri­dor room display. Operation of the smoke detec­tor shall not include any alarm verification feature. 

Exception: In patient and client rooms equipped with existing automatic door closers having inte­gral smoke detector, the integral detector is allowed to substitute for the room smoke detec­tor, provided it meets all the required alerting functions. 

2. 	
Group I-2 nurses' stations. A minimum ofone ( 1) smoke detector shall be installed at the nurses' station and centrally located. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3. 	In waiting areas and corridors onto which they open, in the same smoke compartment, in accor­dance with Section 407.2.1 of the California 
Building Code. 
907.2.6.3 Group 1-3 occupancies. Group I-3 occupan­cies shall be equipped with a manual fire alarm system and automatic smoke detection system installed for alerting staff. 
Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is 
II 
not required within temporary holding cells. 
907.2.6.3.1 System initiation. Actuation of an auto­matic fire-extinguishing system, automatic sprinkler system, a manual fire alarm box or a fire detector shall initiate an approved fire alarm signal which automatically notifies staff. 
907.2.6.3.2 Manual fire alarm boxes. Manual fire alarm boxes are not required to be located in accor­dance with Section 907.4.2 where the fire alarm boxes are provided at staff-attended locations hav­ing direct supervision over areas where manual fire alarm boxes have been omitted. 
907.2.6.3.2.1 Manual fire alarms boxes in detainee areas. Manual fire alarm boxes are allowed to be locked in areas occupied by detain­ees, provided that staff members are present within the subject area and have keys readily available to operate the manual fire alarm boxes. 
907.2.6.3.3 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed throughout resident housing areas, includ­ing sleeping units and contiguous day rooms, group activity spaces and other common spaces normally accessible to inmates. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Other approved smoke detection arrange­ments may be used to prevent damage or tampering or for other purposes provided the function of detecting any fire is fulfilled and the location of the detectors is such that the speed of detection will be equiva­lent to that provided by the spacing and location required in accordance with NFPA 72 as referenced in Chapter 35. This may include the location of detectors in return air ducts from cells, behind grilles or in other locations. Spot type, combina­tion duct and open area smoke detectors may be used when located not more than 14 inches (356 mm) from the return air grill. For initiation and annunciation pur­poses, these detectors may be combined in groups offour. The fire code official having jurisdiction, however, must approve the proposed equivalent peiformance of the design. 

2. 	
For detention housing and/or mental health 


II 
housing area( s ), including correctional 
161 

medical and mental health uses, automatic smoke detection system in sleeping units shall not be required when all of the fol­lowing conditions are met: 
2.1. All rooms, including the inmate cells, are provided with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
2.2. Building 	is continuously staffed by a correctional officer at all times. 
2.3. 
The 	exception to Section 903.2.6.2 shall not apply. 

3. 	
Smoke detectors are not required to be installed in inmate cells with two or fewer occupants in detention facilities which do not have a correctional medical and mental health use. 

4. 	
Smoke detectors are not required to be installed in inmate day rooms of detention facilities where 24-hour direct visual supervision is provided by a correctional officer(s) and a manual fire alarm box is located in the control room. 



907.2.6.3.4 System annunciation A staff alerting fire alarm shall sound at all staff control stations on the floor ofactivation and an audible and visual sig­nal shall be indicated on an annunciator at the facil­ity control center upon activation of any automatic extinguishing system, automatic detection system, or any smoke detector or manual actuating or initiat­ing device. In addition, where there are staff-control stations on the floor, an audible, visual and manual alarm shall be located in each staff control station. 
Fire and trouble signals offire alarm systems and sprinkler water-flow and supervisory signals of extinguishing systems shall be annunciated in an area designated as the facility control center which shall be constantly attended by staff personnel. All such signals shall produce both an audible signal and visual display at the facility control center indi­cating the building, floor zone or other designated area from which the signal originated, in accor­dance with Section 907. 7.3. 
All local detention facilities within the scope of Section 6031.4 of the Penal Code shall have an automatic smoke detection system. A manual fire alarm-initiating device shall be installed in all guard control stations and shall be capable ofalert­ing personnel in a central control point to the pres­ence offire or smoke within the facility. 
907.2.6.4 Large family day care. Every large family day-care home shall be provided with at least one man­ual device at a location approved by the enforcing agency. Such device shall actuate a fire alarm signal, which shall be audible throughout the facility at a min­imum level of 15 db above ambient noise level. These devices need not be interconnected to any other fire alarm device, have a control panel or be electrically supervised or provided with emergency power. Such device or devices shall be attached to the structure and may be ofany type acceptable to the enforcing agency, provided that such devices are distinctive in tone and are audible throughout the structure. 
907.2.7 Group M. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group M occupancies where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The combined Group M occupant load of all floors is 500 or more persons. 

2. 	
The Group M occupant load is more than 100 per­sons above or below the lowest level of exit dis­charge. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
A manual fire alarm system is not required in covered or open mall buildings complying with Section 402 of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped throughout with an auto­matic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notifica­tion appliances will automatically activate throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow. 


907.2.7.1 Occupant notification. During times that the building is occupied, the initiation of a signal from a manual fire alarm box or from a water flow switch shall not be required to activate the alarm notification appli­ances when an alarm signal is activated at a constantly attended location from which evacuation instructions shall be initiated over an emergency voice/alarm com­munication system installed in accordance with Section 
907.5.2.2. 
907.2.8 Group R-1. Fire alarm systems and smoke alarms shall be installed in Group R -1 occupancies as required in Sections 907.2.8.1 through 907.2.8.3. 
907.2.8.1 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group R-1 occupancies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	A manual fire alarm system is not required in buildings not more than two stories in height where all individual sleeping units and contig­uous attic and crawl spaces to those units are separated from each other and public or com­mon areas by at least 1-hour fire partitions and each individual sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, egress court or yard. 
2. 	Manual fire alarm boxes are not required throughout the building when the following conditions are met: 
2.1. The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2; 
2.2. The notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow; and 
2.3. At least one manual fire alarm box is installed at an approved location. 
907.2.8.2 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Sec­tion 907.5 shall be installed throughout all interior cor­ridors serving sleeping units. 
Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units and where each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit. 
907.2.8.3 Smoke alarms. Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tion 907.2.11. 
907.2.9 Group R-2 and R-2.1. Fire alarm systems and 

smoke alarms shall be installed in Group R-2 occupancies > as required in Sections 907.2.9.1 and 907.2.9.3. 
907.2.9.1 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group R-2 occupancies where: 
1. 	
Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located three or more stories above the lowest level of exit discharge; 

2. 	
Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located more than one story below the highest level of exit discharge of exits serving the dwelling unit or sleeping unit; or 

3. 	
The building contains more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units. 


4. 	Congregate residences with more than 16 occu­pants. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	A fire alarm system is not required in build­ings not more than two stories in height where all dwelling units or sleeping units and contig­uous attic and crawl spaces are separated from each other and public or common areas by at least 1-hour fire partitions and each dwelling unit or sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, egress court or yard. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
2. 	Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 
903.3.1.2 and the occupant notification appli­ances will automatically activate throughout the notification zones upon a sprinkler water flow. 
3. 	A fire alarm system is not required in build­ings that do not have interior corridors serving dwelling units and are protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, provided that dwelling units either have a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to the exits or are served by open-ended corri­dors designed in accordance with Section 1026.6, Exception 4. 
907.2.9.2 Smoke alarms. Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tion 907 .2.11. 
907.2.9.3 Group R-2 college and university build­ings. An automatic smoke detection system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group R-2 col­lege and university buildings in the following locations: 
1. 	
Common spaces outside of dwelling units and sleeping units. 

2. 	
Laundry rooms, mechanical equipment rooms, and storage rooms. 

3. 
All interior corridors serving sleeping units 	or dwelling units. 


Required smoke alarms in dwelling units and sleep­ing units in Group R-2 college and university buildings shall be interconnected with the fire alarm system in accordance with NFP A 72. 
Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units or dwelling units and where each sleeping unit or dwelling unit either has a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit or a means of egress door opening directly to an exit. 
907.2.9.4 Licensed Group R-2.1 occupancies. Licensed Group R-2.1 occupancies housing more than six nonambulatory, elderly clients shall be provided with an approved manual and automatic fire alarm sys­tem. 
Exceptions: Buildings housing nonambulatory cli­ents on the first story only and which are protected throughout by the following: 
1. 	An approved and supervised automatic sprin­kler system, as specified in Sections 903.3.1.1 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
or 903.3.1.2, which upon activation will initi­ate the fire alarm system to notify all occu­pants. 
2. 	
A manual fire alarm system. 

3. 	
Smoke alarms required by Section 907.2.11. 



907.2.10 Group R-4. Fire alarm systems and smoke alarms shall be installed in Group R-4 occupancies as required in Sections 907.2.10.1 through 907.2.10.3. 
907.2.10.1 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group R-4 occupancies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A manual fire alarm system is not required in buildings not more than two stories in height where all individual sleeping units and contig­uous attic and crawl spaces to those units are separated from each other and public or com­mon areas by at least 1-hour fire partitions and each individual sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, egress court or yard. 

2. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes are not required throughout the building when the following conditions are met: 


2.1. The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2; 
2.2. The notification appliances will acti­vate upon sprinkler water flow; and 
2.3. 
At least one manual fire alarm box is installed at an approved location. 

3. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes in resident or patient sleeping areas shall not be required at exits where located at all nurses' control stations or other constantly attended staff locations, pro­vided such stations are visible and continu­ously accessible and that travel distances required m Section 907.4.2.1 are not exceeded. 



907.2.10.2 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Sec­tion 907.5 shall be installed in corridors, waiting areas open to corridors and habitable spaces other than sleep­ing units and kitchens. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Smoke detection in habitable spaces is not required where the facility is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1. 

2. 	
An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings that do not have interior 


corridors serving sleeping units and where each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit. 

907.2.10.3 Smoke alarms. Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tion 907 .2.11. 
907.2.11 Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms. Listed single-and multiple-station smoke alarms comply­ing with UL 217 shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tions 907 .2.11.1 through 907 .2.11.4 and NFP A 72. 

Exception: For Group R occupancies. Afire alarm sys­tem with smoke detectors located in accordance with this section may be installed in lieu of smoke alarms. Upon actuation of the detector, only those notification appliances in the dwelling unit or guest room where the detector is actuated shall activate. 
907.2.11.1 Group R-1. Single-or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in all of the following locations in Group R-1: 
1. 	
In sleeping areas. 

2. 	
In every room in the path of the means of egress from the sleeping area to the door leading from the sleeping unit. 

3. 	
In each story within the sleeping unit, including basements. For sleeping units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper level. 


See Section 907.2.11.5 for specific location 
II 

requirements. 
907.2.11.2 Groups R-2, R-2.1, R-3, R-3.1 and R-4. Single-or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-2.1, R-3, R­
3.1 and R-4 regardless of occupant load at all of the fol­lowing locations: 
1. 	
On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of bed­rooms. 

2. 	
In each room used for sleeping purposes. 

Exception: Single-or multiple-station smoke alarms in Group I-1 shall not be required where smoke detectors are provided in the sleeping rooms as part of an automatic smoke detection system. 


3. 	
In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper level. 


4. 	In a Group R-3.1 occupancies, in addition to the above, smoke alarms shall be provided through­out the habitable areas of the dwelling unit except kitchens. 
See Section 907 .2.11.5 for specific location requirements. 
907.2.11.2.1 Group 1-4 occupancies. Large family day-care homes shall be equipped with State Fire Marshal approved and listed single station residen­tial type smoke alarms. 
907.2.11.2.2 Group R-3.1 In all facilities housing a bedridden client, smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms shall be electrically interconnected so as to cause all smoke alarms to sound a distinctive alarm signal upon actuation of any single smoke alarm. Such alarm signal shall be audible throughout the facility at a minimal level of 15 db above ambient noise level. These devices need not be interconnected to any other fire alarm device, have a control panel, or be electronically supervised or provided with emer­gency power. 
907.2.11.2.3 Smoke alarms. Smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manu­facturer's instructions. Smoke alarms that no longer function shall be replaced. Smoke alarms installed in one-and two-family dwellings shall be replaced after 10 years from the date of manufacture marked on the unit, or if the date of manufacture cannot be determined. 
907.2.11.2.4 Conventional ionization smoke alarms. Conventional ionization smoke alarms that are solely battery powered shall be equipped with a ten year battery and have a silence feature. 
A conventional ionization smoke alarm, for the purposes of this section, is a smoke alarm listed as complying with ANSI/UL 217, in which the only sensing element is an ionization sensor. The output signal from the ionization sensor must exceed a fac­tory-set alarm threshold, without the use discrimi­nating algorithms, to determine when an alarm signal is warranted. 
907.2.11.3 Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be installed within an indi­vidual dwelling unit or sleeping unit in Group R occu­pancies, the smoke alarms shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will acti­vate all of the alarms in the individual unit. Physical interconnection of smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed and all alarms 
sound upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed. 
907.2.11.4 Power source. In new construction and in newly classified Group R-3.1 occupancies, required 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring where such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms with integral strobes that are not equipped with battery back-up shall be connected to an emergency electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be per­manent and without a disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent protection. 
Exception: Smoke alarms are not required to be equipped with battery backup where they are con­nected to an emergency electrical system. 
907.2.11.5 Specific location requirements. 
Extract from NFPA 72 Section 29.8.3.4 Specific Loca­tion Requirements*. 
This extract has been provided by NFPA as amended by the Office of the State Fire Marshal and adopted by reference as follows: 
29.8.3.4 Specific Location Requirements. The instal­lation of smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall com­ply with the following requirements: 
(
1) Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be located where ambient conditions, including humidity and temperature, are outside the limits specified by the manufacturer's published instructions. 

(2) 
Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be located within unfinished attics or garages or in other spaces where temperatures can fall below 40°F (4°C) or exceed 100°F (38°C). 

(3) 
Where the mounting surface could become consid­erably warmer or cooler than the room, such as a poorly insulated ceiling below an unfinished attic or an exte­rior wall, smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall be mounted on an inside wall. 


(4) Smoke alarms or smoke detectors shall be installed a minimum of20 feet horizontal distance from a perma­nently installed cooking appliance. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm-silenc­ing switch or Photoelectric smoke alarms shall be permitted to be installed 10 feet (3m) or greater from a permanently installed cook­ing appliance. 

2. 	
Photoelectric smoke alarms shall be permitted to be installed greater than 6 feet ( 1.8 m) from a permanently installed cooking appliance where the kitchen or cooking area and adja­cent spaces have no clear interior partitions and the I 0-foot distances would prohibit the placement ofa smoke alarm or smoke detector required by other sections ofthe code. 

3. 	
Smoke alarms listed for use in close proximity to a permanently installed cooking appliance. 


(5) Installation near bathrooms. Smoke alarms shall be installed not less than a 3-foot (0.91 m) horizontal dis­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
tance from the door or opening ofa bathroom that con­tains a bathtub or shower unless this would prevent placement ofa smoke alarm required by other sections ofthe code. 
(6) 
Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed within a 36 in. (910 mm) horizontal path from the supply registers of a forced air heating or cooling system and shall be installed outside of the direct air­flow from those registers. 

(7) 
Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed within a 36 in. (910 mm) horizontal path from the tip of the blade of a ceiling-suspended (paddle) fan. 

(8) 
Where stairs lead to other occupied levels, a smoke alarm or smoke detector shall be located so that smoke rising in the stairway cannot be prevented from reach­ing the smoke alarm or smoke detector by an interven­ing door or obstruction. 

(9) 
For stairways leading up from a basement, smoke alarms or smoke detectors shall be located on the base­ment ceiling near the entry to the stairs. 

(10) 
For tray-shaped ceilings (coffered ceilings), smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall be installed on the highest portion of the ceiling or on the sloped portion of the ceiling within 12 in. (300 mm) vertically down from the highest point. 

(11) 
Smoke alarms and detectors installed in rooms with joists or beams shall comply with the requirements of 17.7.3.2.4. 

(12) 
Heat alarms and detectors installed in rooms with joists or beams shall comply with the requirements of 


17.6.3. 
II 
*For additional requirements or clarification, see NFPA 72. 
907.2.12 Special amusement buildings. An automatic smoke detection system shall be provided in special amusement buildings in accordance with Sections 
907 .2.12.1 through 907 .2.12.3. 
907.2.12.1 Alarm. Activation of any single smoke detector, the automatic sprinkler system or any other automatic fire detection device shall immediately acti­vate an audible and visible alarm at the building at a constantly attended location from which emergency action can be initiated, including the capability of man­ual initiation of requirements in Section 907.2.12.2. 
907.2.12.2 System response. The activation of two or more smoke detectors, a single smoke detector equipped with an alarm verification feature, the auto­matic sprinkler system or other approved fire detection device shall automatically: 
1. 	
Cause illumination of the means of egress with light of not less than 1 footcandle (11 lux) at the walking surface level; 

2. 	
Stop any conflicting or confusing sounds and visual distractions; 


3. 	
Activate an approved directional exit marking that will become apparent in an emergency; and 

4. 	
Activate a prerecorded message, audible through­out the special amusement building, instructing patrons to proceed to the nearest exit. Alarm sig­nals used in conjunction with the prerecorded message shall produce a sound which is distinc­tive from other sounds used during normal opera­tion. 


907.2.12.3 Emergency voice/alarm communication system. An emergency voice/alarm communication system, which is also allowed to serve as a public address system, shall be installed in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2 and be audible throughout the entire special amusement building. 
907.2.13 High-rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access. High­rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall be provided with an automatic smoke detection system in accordance with Sec­tion 907.2.13 .1, a fire department communication system in accordance with Section 907.2.13.2 and an emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with Section 907.6.2.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Airport traffic control towers in accordance with Section 907.2.22 and Section 412 of the Califor­nia Building Code. 

2. 	
Open parking garages in accordance with Section 


406.5 of the California Building Code. 

3. 	
Buildings with an occupancy in Group A-5 in accordance with Section 303.1 of the California Building Code. 

4. 
Low-hazard special occupancies in accordance with Section 503.1.1 of the California Building Code. 


<

5. 	In Group I-2 and R-2.1 occupancies, the alarm shall sound at a constantly attended location and occupant notification shall be broadcast by the emergency voice/alarm communication system. 
907.2.13.1 Automatic smoke detection. Automatic smoke detection in high-rise buildings and Group 1-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access shall be in accordance with Sections 
907.2.13.1.1 and 907.2.13.1.2. 
907.2.13.1.1 Area smoke detection. Area smoke detectors shall be provided in accordance with this section. Smoke detectors shall be connected to an automatic fire alarm system. The activation of any detector required by this section shall activate the emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. In addition to 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
smoke detectors required by Sections 907.2.1 through 907.2.1 0, smoke detectors shall be located as follows: 
1. 	
In each mechanical equipment, electrical, transformer, telephone equipment or similar room which is not provided with sprinkler protection. 

2. 	
In each elevator machine room and in elevator lobbies. 


[M] 907.2.13.1.2 Duct smoke detection. Smoke detectors listed for use in air duct systems shall be provided in accordance with this section and the California Mechanical Code. The activation of any detector required by this section shall initiate a visi­ble and audible supervisory signal at a constantly attended location. Duct smoke detectors complying with Section 907.3.1 shall be located as follows: 
1. 	
In the main return air and exhaust air plenum of each air-conditioning system having a capacity greater than 2,000 cubic feet per min­ute (cfm) (0.94 m3/s). Such detectors shall be located in a serviceable area downstream of the last duct inlet. 

2. 	
At each connection to a vertical duct or riser serving two or more stories from a return air duct or plenum of an air-conditioning system. In Group R-1 and R-2 occupancies, a smoke detector is allowed to be used in each return air riser carrying not more than 5,000 cfm (2.4 m3/s) and serving not more than 10 air-inlet openings. 


907.2.13.2 Fire department communication system. Where a wired communication system is approved in lieu of an emergency responder radio coverage system in accordance with Section 510, the wired fire depart­ment communication system shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFP A 72 and shall operate between a fire command center complying with Section 508, elevators, elevator lobbies, emergency and standby power rooms, fire pump rooms, areas of refuge and inside enclosed exit stairways. The fire department communication device shall be provided at each floor level within the enclosed exit stairway. 

907.2.14 Atriums connecting more than two stories. A fire alarm system shall be installed in occupancies with an atrium that connects more than two stories, with smoke detection installed throughout the atrium. The system shall be activated in accordance with Section 907.5. Such occu­pancies in Group A, E or M shall be provided with an emergency voice/alarm communication system complying with the requirements of Section 907.5.2.2. 
907.2.15 High-piled combustible storage areas. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed throughout high-piled combustible storage areas where required by Section 3206.5. 
907.2.16 Aerosol storage uses. Aerosol storage rooms and general-purpose warehouses containing aerosols shall be provided with an approved manual fire alarm system where required by this code. 
907.2.17 Lumber, wood structural panel and veneer mills. Lumber, wood structural panel and veneer mills shall be provided with a manual fire alarm system. 
907.2.18 Underground buildings with smoke control systems. Where a smoke control system is installed in an underground building in accordance with the California Building Code, automatic smoke detectors shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 907.2.18.1. 
907.2.18.1 Smoke detectors. A minimum of one smoke detector listed for the intended purpose shall be installed in the following areas: 
1. 	
Mechanical equipment, electrical, transformer, telephone equipment, elevator machine or similar rooms. 

2. 	
Elevator lobbies. 

3. 	
The main return and exhaust air plenum of each air-conditioning system serving more than one story and located in a serviceable area down­stream of the last duct inlet. 

4. 	
Each connection to a vertical duct or riser serving two or more floors from return air ducts or ple­nums of heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems, except that in Group R occupancies, a listed smoke detector is allowed to be used in each return air riser carrying not more than 5,000 cfm (2.4 m3/s) and serving not more than 10 air inlet openings. 


907.2.18.2 Alarm required. Activation of the smoke control system shall activate an audible alarm at a con­stantly attended location. 

907.2.19 Deep underground buildings. Where the lowest level of a structure is more than 60 feet (18 288 mm) below the finished floor of the lowest level of exit dis­charge, the structure shall be equipped throughout with a manual fire alarm system, including an emergency voice/ alarm communication system installed in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. 
907.2.20 Covered and open mall buildings. Where the total floor area exceeds 50,000 square feet ( 4645 m2) within either a covered mall building or within the perime­ter line of an open mall building, an emergency voice/ alarm communication system shall be provided. Emer­gency voice/alarm communication systems serving a mall, required or otherwise, shall be accessible to the fire department. The system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. 
907.2.21 Residential aircraft hangars. A minimum of one single-station smoke alarm shall be installed within a residential aircraft hangar as defined in the California Building Code and shall be interconnected into the resi­dential smoke alarm or other sounding device to provide an alarm that will be audible in all sleeping areas of the dwelling. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
907.2.22 Airport traffic control towers. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notifi­cation system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be provided in airport control towers in all occupiable and equipment spaces. 
Exception: Audible appliances shall not be installed within the control tower cab. 
907.2.23 Battery rooms. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed in areas containing stationary storage battery systems with a liquid capacity of more than 50 gallons (189 L). 
907.2.24 Motion Picture and Television Production Stu­dio Sound Stages and Approved Production Facilities 
907.2.24.1 Sound Stages-Solid-ceiling Sets and Plat­forms. Where required by Chapter 48, all interior solid-ceiling sets over 600 square feet (55.7 m2) in area, and platforms (when provided) over 600 square feet (55.7 m2) in area and which exceed 3 feet (914 mm) in height shall be protected by an approved heat detec­tor system. Heat detectors shall be spaced 30 feet (9144 mm) on center or as required by the manufacturer's installation instructions. The fire alarm system shall be connected to an approved supervising station in accor­dance with Section 907.7.5 or a local alarm which will give an audible signal at a constantly attended loca­tion. 
907.2.24.2 Production Locations-Solid-Ceiling Sets and Platforms. Where required by Chapter 48 in build­ings with existing fire protection systems and where production intends to construct solid-ceiling sets over 600 square feet (55.7 m2) in area, and platforms over 600 square feet (55.7 m2) in area and which exceed 3 feet (914 mm) in height shall be protected by the fol­lowing: 
1. 	An approved heat detector system. Heat detectors shall be spaced 30 feet (9144 mm) on center or as required by the manufacturer's installation instruc­tions. The fire alarm system shall be connected to an approved supervising station in accordance with Section 907.7.5 or a local alarm which will give an audible signal at a constantly attended location. 
907.2.24.3 Fire alarm control units. Fire alarm con­trol units shall be California State Fire Marshal listed and shall be utilized in accordance with their listing. Control units are permitted to be temporarily sup­ported by sets, platforms or pedestals. 
907.2.24.4 Heat detectors. 
907.2.24.4.1 Heat detection required by this section shall be defined as a portable system as it is intended to be reinstalled when platforms or sets are changed. 

907.2.24.4.2 Heat detectors shall be secured to stan­dard outlet boxes and are allowed to be temporarily supported by sets, platforms or pedestals. 
907.2.24.4.3 Heat detectors shall be provided for solid-ceiling sets and platforms where required by Section 4805.3 and 4811.14. 
907.2.25 Group C occupancies (Organized Camps). 
907.2.25.1 General. Every building and structure used or intended for sleeping purposes shall be provided with an automatic smoke-detection system. 
Exception: 
1. 	
Buildings and structures in existence and in oper­ation prior to January 1, 1985. 

2. 	
Tents, tent structures and buildings and struc­tures that do not exceed 25 feet (7620 mm) in any lateral dimensions and where such building or structure is not more than one story. 


907.2.25.2 Camp fire alarm. Every organized camp shall provide and maintain audible appliances or devices suitable for sounding a fire alarm. Such audi­ble appliances or devices may be of any type accept­able to the enforcing agency, provided they are distinctive in tone from all other signaling devices or systems and shall be audible throughout the camp premises. When an automatic fire alarm system is pro­vided, as required by Section 440.6.6 of the California Building Code, all audible appliances required by this section shall be of the same type as that used in the automatic system. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.12] Fire Alarm. 
Every organized camp shall provide and maintain an audi­ble appliance or audible appliances suitable for sounding a fire alarm. Such audible appliance or audible appliances may be of any type acceptable to the enforcing agency provided they are distinctive in tone from all other signaling devices or systems and shall be audible throughout the camp premises. 
When an automatic fire alarm system is provided, all audi­ble appliances and fire alarm signals as required by this sec­tion shall be of the same type as that used in the automatic system. 
907.2.26 Fixed Guideway Transits Systems Fire Alarm and Communication Systems. 
907.2.26.1 General. Every fixed guideway transit sta­tion shall be provided with an approved emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with NFPA 72. The emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be designed and installed so that damage to any one speaker will not render any paging zone of the system inoperative. 
Exception: Open stations. 
907.2.26.2 System components. Each station fire alarm system shall consist of' 
1. 	
Fire alarm control unit at a location as permitted by the enforcing agency. 

2. 	
An alarm annunciator(s). The annunciator(s) shall be located at a point acceptable to the enforcing agency. The annunciator(s) shall indi­


cate the type of device and general location of alarm. All alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be transmitted to the local annunciator( s) and the operations control center. 
3. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes shall be provided throughout passenger platforms and stations. 

Exception: Two-way emergency communication reporting devices (emergency telephones) are allowed to be used in lieu of manual fire alarm boxes, as permitted by the enforcing agency. Such devices shall provide two-way communica­tion between the operations control center and each device. Such devices shall be located as required for manual fire alarm boxes, and shall be distinctly identified by signs, coloring, or other means acceptable to the enforcing agency. 

4. 	
Automatic smoke detectors in all ancillmy spaces. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Ancillary spaces protected by an approved fixed automatic extinguishing system; or 

2. 	
Ancillary spaces protected by quick-response sprinklers. 


5. Automatic control ofexiting components. 
907.2.26.3 Emergency voice/alarm communication system. Each station shall be provided with a an emer­gency voice/alarm communication system capable of transmitting voice, recorded or electronically gener­ated textual messages to all areas of the station. The system( s) shall be configured such that the messages can be initiated from either the Emergency Manage­ment Panel (EMP) or the operations control center. 
907.2.26.4 Emergency telephones. A dedicated two­way emergency communication phone system designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 72 shall be provided in all underground stations to facilitate direct communications for emergency response between remote locations and the EMP. 
907.2.26.4.1 Remote emergency phones shall be located at ends ofstation platforms, each hose outlet connection and station valve rooms. 
907.2.26.4.2 Provisions shall be made in the design of this two-way emergency communication phone system for extensions of the system to the next pas­senger station or guideway portal. 
907.2.27 Winery caves. An approved manual fire alarm system conforming to the provisions ofSection 907.2 shall be provided in all Type 3 winery caves. 
907.2.28 Group L. A manual fire alarm system shall be installed throughout buildings containing Group L occu­pancy. When Group L occupancies are located in mixed use buildings, at least one manual fire alarm shall be located in the Group L occupancy. 
907.2.28.1 Group L occupancies located above the lOth story. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be required 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
on each side of the 2-hour fire-smoke barrier and at each exit above the 1Oth story. 
907.2.29 Public school state-funded construction proj­ects for kindergarten through 12th grade -automatic fire alarm system requirements. 
907.2.29.1 New public school campus. An automatic fire alarm system shall be provided in all occupancies. The provisions of this section shall apply to any public school project consisting ofone or more buildings on a new school campus and receiving state funds pursuant to Leroy F. Greene School Facilities Act of 1998, Cali­fornia Education Code, Sections 17070.10 through 17079. For purposes ofthis section, new campus refers to a school site, where an application for construction of original buildings was made to the Division of the State Architect (DSA) on or after July 1, 2002. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A relocatable building that is sited with the intent that it be at the site for less than three years and is sited upon a temporary founda­tion in a manner that is designed to permit easy removal. Also see CCR, Title 24, Part 1, California Administrative Code, Section 4-314 for definition ofrelocatable building. 

2. 	
Detached buildings designed and used for noninstructional purposes that meet the appli­cable requirements for that occupancy. Build­ings would include, but not be limited to: 


Concession stand. 
Press box. 
Restroom facilities. 
Shade structure. 
Snack bar. 
Storage building. 
Ticket booth. 
907.2.29.2 New building on an existing public school campus. An automatic fire alarm system shall be pro­vided in all occupancies. The provisions of this section shall apply to any public school project construction of a new building on an existing campus and receiving state funds pursuant to Leroy F. Green, School Facili­ties Act of 1998, California Education Code sections 17070.10 through 17079. For purposes of this section, an existing campus refers to a school site, where an application for construction of original buildings was made to DSA prior to July 1, 2002. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A construction project that has an estimated total cost ofless than $200,000. 

2. 	
A relocatable building that is sited with the intent that it be at the site for less than three years and is sited upon a temporary founda­tion in a manner that is designed to permit easy removal. See California Administrative Code, Section 4-314 for definition of relocat­able building. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3. 	Detached buildings designed and used for noninstructional purposes that meet the appli­cable requirements for that occupancy. Build­ings would include, but not be limited to: 
Concession stand. 
Press box. 
Restroom facilities. 
Shade structure. 
Snack bar. 
Storage building. 
Ticket booth. 


907.2.29.3 Alterations to existing buildings on an existing public school campus. An automatic fire alarm system shall be provided for all portions within the scope of an alteration project. The provisions of this section shall apply to any public school project on an existing campus and receiving state funds pursuant to Leroy F. Green, School Facilities Act of 1998, Cali­fornia Education Code, Sections 17070.10 through 17079. For purposes ofthis section, an existing campus refers to a school site, where an application for con­struction of original buildings was made to DSA prior to July 1, 2002. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A construction project that has an estimated total cost ofless than $200,000. 

2. 	
A relocatable building that is sited with the intent that it be at the site for less than three years and is sited upon a temporary founda­tion in a manner that is designed to permit easy removal. See California Administrative Code, Section 4-314 for definition of relocat­able building. 

3. 	
Detached buildings designed and used for noninstructional purposes that meet the appli­cable requirements for that occupancy. Build­ings would include, but not be limited to: 


Concession stand. 
Press box. 
Restroom facilities. 
Shade structure. 
Snack bar. 
Storage building. 
Ticket booth. 

907.3 Fire safety functions. Automatic fire detectors utilized for the purpose of performing fire safety functions shall be connected to the building's fire alarm control unit where a 
> 	fire alarm system installed. Detectors shall, upon actuation, perform the intended function and activate the alarm notifica­tion appliances or activate a visible and audible supervisory signal at a constantly attended location. In buildings not equipped with a fire alarm system, the automatic fire detector shall be powered by normal electrical service and, upon actu­ation, perform the intended function. The detectors shall be located in accordance with NFP A 72. 
907.3.1 Duct smoke detectors. Smoke detectors installed in ducts shall be listed for the air velocity, temperature and humidity present in the duct. Duct smoke detectors shall be connected to the building's fire alarm control unit when a fire alarm system is installed. Activation of a duct smoke detector shall initiate a visible and audible supervisory sig­nal at a constantly attended location and shall perform the intended fire safety function in accordance with this code and the California Mechanical Code. Duct smoke detec­tors shall not be used as a substitute for required open area detection. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The supervisory signal at a constantly attended location is not required where duct smoke detec­tors activate the building's alarm notification appliances. 

2. 	
In occupancies not required to be equipped with a fire alarm system, actuation of a smoke detector shall activate a visible and an audible signal in an approved location. Smoke detector trouble condi­tions shall activate a visible or audible signal in an approved location and shall be identified as air duct detector trouble. 


907.3.2 Delayed egress locks. Where delayed egress locks or devices are installed on means of egress doors in accordance with Section 1008.1.9.7, an automatic smoke detection system shall be installed as required by this sec­tion and Section 1 008.1.9. 7. 
907.3.2.1 In other than Group 1, Group R-2.1 and II Group R-4, occupancies for single-story building smoke detectors shall be installed at ceilings through­out all occupied areas and mechanical/electrical spaces. For multiple-story buildings, smoke detectors shall be installed throughout all occupied areas and mechanicaUelectrical spaces for the story where delayed egress devices are installed. Additional detec­tors are required on adjacent stories where occupants ofthose stories utilize the same means ofegress. 
Exception: Refer to Section 907.3.2.4 for Group A 
II 

courthouse occupancies. 
907.3.2.2 For Group 1 and R-2.1 occupancies. Smoke detectors shall be installed at ceilings throughout all occupied areas and mechanical/electrical spaces of smoke-compartments where delayed egress devices are installed. Additional detectors are required in adjacent smoke-compartments where occupants of those com­partments utilize the same means ofegress. 
907.3.2.3 For Group R-4 occupancies. For Group R-4 occupancies licensed as residential care facilities for the elderly, and housing clients with Alzheimer's dis­ease or dementia, smoke detectors shall be installed at ceilings throughout all occupiable rooms and areas and mechanical/electrical rooms and spaces. 
907.3.3 Elevator emergency operation. Automatic fire detectors installed for elevator emergency operation shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Califor­nia Code of Regulations, Title 8, Division 1, Chapter 4, < Subchapter 6, Elevator Safety Orders and NFPA 72. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
907.3.4 Wiring. The wiring to the auxiliary devices and equipment used to accomplish the above fire safety func­tions shall be monitored for integrity in accordance with NFPA 72. 

907.4 Initiating devices. Where manual or automatic alarm initiation is required as part of a fire alarm system, the initiat­ing devices shall be installed in accordance with Sections 
907.4.1 through 907.4.3.1. 
907.4.1 Protection of fire alarm control unit. In areas that are not continuously occupied, a single smoke detec­tor shall be provided at the location of each fire alarm con­trol unit, notification appliance circuit power extenders and supervising station transmitting equipment. 

> 	Exception: Where ambient conditions prohibit instal­lation of smoke detector, a heat detector shall be per­mitted. 
907.4.2 Manual fire alarm boxes. Where a manual fire alarm system is required by another section of this code, it shall be activated by fire alarm boxes installed in accor­dance with Sections 907.4.2.1 through 907.4.2.6. 
907.4.2.1 Location. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be located not more than 5 feet (1524 mm) from the entrance to each exit. Additional manual fire alarm boxes shall be located so that travel distance to the nearest box does not exceed 200 feet (60 960 mm). 
Exception: When individual dwelling units are served by a single exit stairway, additional boxes at other than the ground floor may be omitted. 
907.4.2.2 Height. The height of the manual fire alarm boxes shall be a minimum of 42 inches (1067 mm) and a maximum of 48 inches (1372 mm) measured verti­cally, from the floor level to the activating handle or lever of the box. 
907.4.2.3 Color. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be red in color. 
907.4.2.4 Signs. Where fire alarm systems are not mon­itored by a supervising station, an approved permanent sign shall be installed adjacent to each manual fire alarm box that reads: WHEN ALARM SOUNDS­CALL FIRE DEPARTMENT. 
Exception: Where the manufacturer has perma­
nently provided this information on the manual fire 
alarm box. 
907.4.2.5 Protective covers. The fire code official is authorized to require the installation of listed manual fire alarm box protective covers to prevent malicious false alarms or to provide the manual fire alarm box with protection from physical damage. The protective cover shall be transparent or red in color with a trans­parent face to permit visibility of the manual fire alarm box. Each cover shall include proper operating instruc­tions. A protective cover that emits a local alarm signal shall not be installed unless approved. Protective covers shall not project more than that permitted by Section 1003.3.3. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
907.4.2.6 Unobstructed and unobscured. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be accessible, unobstructed, unobscured and visible at all times. 
907.4.2. 7 Operation. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be 
operable with one hand including boxes with protective covers. 

907.4.3 Automatic smoke detection. Where an automatic smoke detection system is required it shall utilize smoke detectors unless ambient conditions prohibit such an installation. In spaces where smoke detectors cannot be utilized due to ambient conditions, approved automatic heat detectors shall be permitted. 
907.4.3.1 Automatic sprinkler system. For conditions other than specific fire safety fum:lions noleu in Section 907.3, in areas where ambient conditions prohibit the installation of smoke detectors, an automatic sprinkler system installed in such areas in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and that is connected to the fire alarm system shall be approved as automatic heat detection. 

907.5 Occupant notification systems. A fire alarm system shall annunciate at the fire alarm control unit and shall initiate occupant notification upon activation, in accordance with Sections 907.5.1 through 907.5.2.3.4. Where a fire alarm sys­tem is required by another section of this code, it shall be activated by: 
1. 	
Automatic fire detectors. 

2. 	
Automatic sprinkler system waterflow devices. 

3. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes. 

4. 	
Automatic fire-extinguishing systems. 


Exception: Where notification systems are allowed 
elsewhere in Section 907 to annunciate at a constantly 
attended location. 

907.5.1 Presignal feature. A presignal feature shall not be installed unless approved by the fire code official and the fire department. Where a presignal feature is provided, a signal shall be annunciated at a constantly attended loca­tion approved by the fire department, in order that occu­pant notification can be activated in the event of fire or other emergency. 
907.5.2 Alarm notification appliances. Alarm notifica­tion appliances shall be provided and shall be listed for their purpose. 
907.5.2.1 Audible alarms. Audible alarm notification appliances shall be provided and emit a distinctive sound that is not to be used for any purpose other than that of a fire alarm. In Group I-2 occupancies, audible appliances located in patient areas shall be only chimes or similar sounding appliances for alerting staff. See Section 907.6.5. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Visible alarm notification appliances shall be allowed in lieu of audible alarm notification appliances in patient areas of Group 1-2 occu­pancies. < 

2. 	Where provided, audible notification appli­ances located in each occupant evacuation ele­vator lobby in accordance with Section 3008.10.1 of the California Building Code shall be connected to a separate notification zone for manual paging only. 

907.5.2.1.1 Average sound pressure. The audible  
alarm notification appliances shall provide a sound  
pressure level of 15 decibels (dBA) above the aver­ 
age ambient sound level or 5 dBA above the maxi­ 
mum sound level having a duration of at least 60  
seconds, whichever is greater, in every occupiable  
space within the building.  
907.5.2.1.2 Maximum sound pressure. The maxi­ 
mum sound pressure level for audible alarm notifi­ 
cation appliances shall be 110 dBA at the minimum  
hearing distance from the audible appliance. Where  
the average ambient noise is greater than 95 dBA,  
visible alarm notification appliances shall be pro­ 
vided in accordance with NFP A 72 and audible  
alarm notification appliances shall not be required.  
II  907.5.2.1.3 Audible alarm signal. The audible sig­nal shall be the standard fire alarm evacuation sig­ 
nal, ANSI S34./ Audible Emergency Evacuation  
Signal, "three pulse temporal pattern," as described  
inNFPA 72.  
Exception: The use of the existing evacuation  
signaling scheme shall be permitted where  
approved by the enforcing agency.  
907.5.2.2 Emergency voice/alarm communication  
systems. Emergency voice/alarm communication sys­ 
tems required by this code shall be designed and  
installed in accordance with NFP A 72. The operation of  
any automatic fire detector, sprinkler waterflow device  
or manual fire alarm box shall automatically sound an  
alert tone followed by voice instructions giving  
approved information and directions for a general or  
staged evacuation in accordance with the building's fire  
safety and evacuation plans required by Section 404. In  
high-rise buildings and Group /-2 occupancies having  
occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the  
lowest level offire department vehicle access, the sys­ 
tem shall operate on a minimum of the alarming floor,  
the floor above and the floor below. Speakers shall be  
provided throughout the building by paging zones. At a  
minimum, paging zones shall be provided as follows:  
1. Elevator groups.  
2. Exit stairways.  
3. Each floor.  
4. Areas of refuge as defined in Chapter 2.  
>  Exception: In Group 1-2 and R-2.1 occupancies, the  
alarm shall sound in a constantly attended area and a  
general occupant notification shall be broadcast over  
the overhead page.  
907.5.2.2.1 Manual override. A manual override for  
emergency voice communication shall be provided  
on a selective and all-call basis for all paging zones.  
172  

907.5.2.2.2 Live voice messages. The emergency voice/alarm communication system shall also have the capability to broadcast live voice messages by paging zones on a selective and all-call basis. 
907.5.2.2.3 Alternate uses. The emergency voice/ alarm communication system shall be allowed to be used for other announcements, provided the manual fire alarm use takes precedence over any other use. 
907.5.2.2.4 Emergency voice/alarm communica­tion captions. Where stadiums, arenas and grand­stands are required to caption audible public announcements in accordance with Section 1108.2.7.3 of the California Building Code, the emergency/voice alarm communication system shall also be captioned. Prerecorded or live emergency captions shall be from an approved location con­stantly attended by personnel trained to respond to an emergency. 
907.5.2.2.5 Emergency power. Emergency voice/ alarm communications systems shall be provided with an approved emergency power source. 
907.5.2.3 Visible alarms. Visible alarm notification appliances shall be provided in accordance with Sec­tions 907.5.2.3.1 through 907.5.2.3.5. 
< 

Exceptions: 
1. 	In other than Group /-2 and /-2.1, visible alarm notification appliances are not required in alterations, except where an existing fire alarm system is upgraded or replaced, or a new fire alarm system is installed. 
2. 	Visible alarm notification appliances shall not be required in enclosed exit stairways, exterior exit stairs and exterior exit ramps. 
< 
3. 	Visible alarm notification appliances shall not be required in elevator cars. 

907.5.2.3.1 Public and common areas. Visible alarm notification appliances shall be provided in public use areas and common use areas including but not limited to: 
1. 	
Sanitary facilities including restrooms, bath­rooms and shower rooms. 

2. 	
Corridors. 

3. 	
Music practice rooms. 

4. 	
Band rooms. 

5. 	
Gymnasiums. 

6. 	
Multipurpose rooms. 

7. 	
Occupational shops. 

8. 	
Occupied rooms where ambient noise impairs hearing ofthe fire alarm. 

9. 	
Lobbies. 

10. 
Meeting rooms. 


11 Classrooms. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

> 
> 
II 
II 

907.5.2.3.2 Employee work areas. Where employee work areas have audible alarm coverage, the notification appliance circuits serving the employee work areas shall be initially designed with a minimum of 20-percent spare capacity to account for the potential of adding visible notification appli­ances in the future to accommodate hearing impaired employee(s). 
907.5.2.3.3 Groups R-1 and R-2.1. Group R-1 and R-2.1 dwelling units or sleeping units in accordance with Table 907.5.2.3.3 shall be provided with a visi­ble alarm notification appliance, activated by both the in-room smoke alarm and the building fire alarm system. 
TABLE 907.5.2.3.3 VISIBLE ALARMS 

NUMBER OF SLEEPING UNITS  SLEEPING ACCOMMODATIONS WITH VISIBLE ALARMS  
6 to 25  2  
26 to 50  4  
51 to 75  7  
76 to 100  9  
101 to 150  12  
151 to 200  14  
201 to 300  17  
301 to 400  20  
401 to 500  22  
501 to 1,000  5% of total  
1,001 and over  50 plus 3 for each 100 over 1,000  

[SFM] Also see Chapter JIB ofthe California Building Code. 
907.5.2.3.4 Group R-2. In Group R-2 occupancies required by Section 907 to have a fire alarm system, all dwelling units and sleeping units shall be pro­vided with the capability to support visible alarm notification appliances in accordance with NFP A 72. Such capability shall be permitted to include the potential for future interconnection of the building fire alarm system with the unit smoke alarms, replacement of audible appliances with combination audible/visible appliances, or future extension of the existing wiring from the unit smoke alarm locations to required locations for visible appliances. 
907.5.2.3.5 Group R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4. Protective social care facilities which house persons who are hearing impaired, shall be provided with notifica­tion appliances for the hearing impaired installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and which shall activate upon initiation ofthe fire alarm system or the smoke alarms. 
907.5.2.4 Group E schools. One audible alarm notifi­cation appliance shall be mounted on the exterior of a building to alert occupants at each playground area. 
907.5.2.5 Groups 1-2 and 1-2.1. Audible appliances shall be used in nonpatient areas. Visible appliances are allowed to be used in lieu of audible appliances in 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
patient occupied areas. Audible appliances located in 
patient areas shall be only chimes or similar sounding 
appliances for alerting staff 
In occupancies housing nonambulatory persons where restraint is practiced, staff and attendants shall be provided and housed or located in such a manner that such supervisory personnel will also be alerted upon activation ofthe fire alarm system or any detector required by this section. 

907.6 Installation. A fire alarm system shall be installed in accordance with Sections 907.6.1 through 907.6.5.2 and NFPA 72. 
907.6.1 Wiring. Wiring shall comply with the require­ments of California Electrical Code and NFP A 72. Wire­less protection systems utilizing radio-frequency transmitting devices shall comply with the special require­ments for supervision of low-power wireless systems in NFPA 72. 
907.6.1.1 High-rise buildings. Wiring for fire alarm signaling line circuits, initiating circuits and notifica­tion circuits in high-rise buildings shall be in accor­dance with the following: 
1. 	
Class A in accordance with NFPA 72. 

Exception: Initiating circuits which serve only a single initiating device. 

2. 	
Enclosed in continuous metallic raceways in accordance with the California Electrical Code. 


Exception: Metallic cable (MC) shall be permit­ted for fire alarm notification circuits where con­tinuous metallic raceways are not required for survivability. 

907.6.2 Power supply. The primary and secondary power supply for the fire alarm system shall be provided in accordance with NFP A 72. 
Exception: Backup power for single-station and multi­ple-station smoke alarms as required in Section 
907.2.11.4. 

907.6.3 Zones. Fire alarm systems shall be divided into zones where required by this section. For the purposes of annunciation and notification, zoning shall be in accor­dance with the following: 
1. 	
Where the fire-protective signaling system serves more than one building, each building shall be con­sidered as a separate zone. 

2. 	
Each floor of a building shall be considered as a separate zone. 

3. 	
Each section offloor of a building that is separated by fire walls or by horizontal exits shall be consid­ered as a separate zone. 


4. 	Each zone shall not exceed 22,500 square feet (2090 m2). The length of any zone shall not exceed 300 < feet (91 440 mm) in any direction. 
Exception: Automatic sprinkler system zones shall not exceed the area permitted by NFPA 13. 

5. 	
For Group /-3 occupancies each cell complex shall be considered a separate zone. 

6. 	
For Group H and L occupancies above the lOth story, each side of the 2-hour fire-smoke barrier shall be considered a separate zone. 

7. 	
Annunciation shall be further divided into zones where deemed necessary by the enforcing agency. 


907.6.3.1 Annunciation. Alarm, supervisory and trou­ble signals shall be annunciated in the main control unit by means ofan audible signal and a visual display in accordance with NFPA 72. Identification of the type of alarm and supervisory initiating devices, such as manual, automatic, sprinkler waterflow, sprinkler valve supervisory, fire-pump supervisory, etc., shall be sepa­rately indicated. 
Exception: Group R-3 occupancies. 
907.6.3.1.1 Annunciator panel. An annunciator

>II 
panel complying with Section 907.7.3.1 and the associated controls shall be provided in an approved remote location where deemed necessary by the Enforcing Agency. The visual zone indication shall lock in until the system is reset and shall not be can­celed by the operation of an audible alarm-silencing switch. 

> 	907.6.3.2 High-rise buildings. In high-rise buildings and Group /-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access, a separate zone by floor shall be provided for all of the following types of alarm-initiating devices where provided: 
1. 	
Smoke detectors. 

2. 	
Sprinkler water-flow devices. 

3. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes. 

4. 	
Other approved types of automatic fire detection devices or suppression systems. 



907.6.3.3 High-rise buildings zoning annunciator panel. In high-rise buildings, a zoning annunciator panel shall be provided in the Fire Command Center. This panel shall not be combined with the Firefighter Smoke Control Panel unless approved. Panel shall be in matrix format or an approved equivalent configura­tion. All indicators shall be based upon positive confir­mation. The panel shall include the following features at a minimum: 
1. 	
Fire alarm initiating devices with individual annunciation per floor for manual fire alarm boxes, area smoke detectors, elevator lobby smoke detectors, duct smoke detectors, heat detectors, auxiliary atarms and sprinkler water­flow. (Red LED) 

2. 	
Sprinkler and standpipe system control valves per floor-supervisory. (Yellow LED) 

3. 	
Common fire alarm system trouble. (Yellow LED) 



4. 	
Annunciation Panel Power On. (Green LED) 

5. 	
Lamp test. (Push Button) 


907.6.3.4 Notification zoning. Upon activation of initi­ating devices where occupant notification is required for evacuation, all notification zones shall operate simultaneously throughout the building. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	High-rise buildings as permitted in Section 
907.2.12.2. 

2. 	
Hospitals and convalescent facilities with staff alerting notification appliances or emergency voice/alarm communication, zoning shall be in accordance with the approved fire plan. 

3. 	
Detention facilities. 

4. 	
Upon approval by the fire code official in build­ings which are sprinklered throughout, specific notification zoning shall be permitted where the notification zones are separated by a minimum of a 2-hour fire barrier and 2-hour fire-resistive floor assembly. The system shall have the capa­bility to activate all other notification zones by automatic and manual means. 

5. 	
Upon approval by the fire code official in build­ings which are sprinklered throughout, specific notification zoning shall be permitted where the activated initiating device or fire extinguishing system is separated from any nonactive notifica­tion zones by a minimum of 300-foot horizontal distance. The system shall have the capability to activate all other notification zones by automatic and manual means. 

6. 	
Where a Group H or L occupancy is located above the lOth story, each side ofthe 2-hour fire­smoke barrier shall be considered a separate zone. 


907.6.4 Access. Access shall be provided to each fire alarm device and notification appliance for periodic inspection, maintenance and testing. 
907.6.5 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or by the California Building Code shall be moni­tored by an approved supervising station in accordance with NFP A 72 and this section. 
Exception: Supervisory service is not required for: 
1. 	Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section 907 .2.11. 
2. 	Group I-3 occupancies shall be monitored in accordance with Section 907.2.6.3.4. 
3. 	Automatic sprinkler systems in one-and two-family dwellings. 
907.6.5.1 Automatic telephone-dialing devices. Auto­matic telephone-dialing devices used to transmit an emergency alarm shall not be connected to any fire department telephone number unless approved by the fire chief. 
907.6.5.2 Termination of monitoring service. Termi­nation of fire alarm monitoring services shall be in accordance with Section 901.9. 
907.6.5.3 Group E schools. Fire alarm systems shall 
transmit the alarm, supervisory and trouble signals to an approved supervising station in accordance with NFPA 72. The supervising station shall be listed as either UUFX (Central Station) or UUJS (remote & proprietary) by the Underwriters Laboratory Inc. (UL) or other approved listing and testing laboratory or shall comply with the requirements ofFM 3011. 

907.7 Acceptance tests and completion. Upon completion of the installation, the fire alarm system and all fire alarm components shall be tested in accordance with NFP A 72. 
907.7.1 Single-and multiple-station alarm devices. When the installation of the alarm devices is complete, each device and interconnecting wiring for multiple-sta­tion alarm devices shall be tested in accordance with the smoke alarm provisions of NFP A 72. 
907.7.2 Record of completion. A record of completion in accordance with NFPA 72 verifying that the system has been installed and tested in accordance with the approved plans and specifications shall be provided. 
907.7.3 Instructions. Operating, testing and maintenance instructions and record drawings ("as builts") and equip­ment specifications shall be provided at an approved loca­tion. 

907.8 Inspection, testing and maintenance. The mainte­nance and testing schedules and procedures for fire alarm and fire detection systems shall be in accordance with Sections 
907.8.1 through 907.8.5 and NFPA 72. 
907.8.1 Maintenance required. Whenever required for compliance with the provisions of this code, devices, equipment, systems, conditions, arrangements, levels of protection or other features shall thereafter be continu­ously maintained in accordance with applicable NFP A requirements or as directed by the fire code official. 
907.8.2 Testing. Testing shall be performed in accordance with the schedules in NFP A 72 or more frequently where required by the fire code official. 
Exception: Devices or equipment that are inaccessible for safety considerations shall be tested during sched­uled shutdowns where approved by the fire code offi­cial, but not less than every 18 months. 
907.8.3 Smoke detector sensitivity. Smoke detector sen­sitivity shall be checked within one year after installation and every alternate year thereafter. After the second cali­bration test, where sensitivity tests indicate that the detec­tor has remained within its listed and marked sensitivity range (or 4-percent obscuration light grey smoke, if not marked), the length of time between calibration tests shall be permitted to be extended to a maximum of five years. Where the frequency is extended, records of detector­caused nuisance alarms and subsequent trends of these alarms shall be maintained. In zones or areas where nui­sance alarms show any increase over the previous year, calibration tests shall be performed. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
907.8.4 Method. To verify that each smoke detector is within its listed and marked sensitivity range, it shall be tested using one of the following methods: 
1. 	
A calibrated test method; 

2. 	
The manufacturer's calibrated sensitivity test instru­ment; 

3. 	
Listed control equipment arranged for the purpose; 

4. 	
A smoke detector/control unit arrangement whereby the detector causes a signal at the control unit where the detector's sensitivity is outside its acceptable sensitivity range; or 

5. 
Another calibrated sensitivity test method accept­able to the fire code official. 


Detectors found to have a sensitivity outside the listed and marked sensitivity range shall be cleaned and recali­brated or replaced. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Detectors listed as field adjustable shall be per­mitted to be either adjusted within the listed and marked sensitivity range and cleaned and recali­brated or they shall be replaced. 

2. 	
This requirement shall not apply to single-station smoke alarms. 


907.8.4.1 Testing device. Smoke detector sensitivity shall not be tested or measured using a device that administers an unmeasured concentration of smoke or other aerosol into the detector. 
907.8.5 Maintenance, inspection and testing. The build­ing owner shall be responsible to maintain the fire and life safety systems in an operable condition at all times. Ser­vice personnel shall meet the qualification requirements of NFP A 72 for maintaining, inspecting and testing such sys­tems. A written record shall be maintained and shall be made available to the fire code official. 

907.9 Where required in existing buildings and struc­tures. An approved fire alarm system shall be provided in existing buildings and structures where required in Chapter 
11. 
SECTION 908 
EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS 


908.1 Group H occupancies. Emergency alarms for the detection and notification of an emergency condition in Group H occupancies shall be provided as required in Chap­ter 50. 
908.2 Group H-5 occupancy. Emergency alarms for notifi­cation of an emergency condition in an HPM facility shall be provided as required in Section 2703.12. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided for HPM gases in accor­dance with Section 2703.13. 
908.3 Highly toxic and toxic materials. Where required by Section 6004.2.2.10, a gas detection system shall be provided for indoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic com­pressed gases. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
908.4 Ozone gas-generator rooms. A gas detection system shall be provided in ozone gas-generator rooms in accordance with Section 6005.3.2. 
908.5 Repair garages. A flammable-gas detection system shall be provided in repair garages for vehicles fueled by non­odorized gases in accordance with Section 2311.7 .2. 
908.6 Refrigeration systems. Refrigeration system machin­ery rooms shall be provided with a refrigerant detector in accordance with Section 606.8. 
908.7 Carbon monoxide alarms. See Section 420 of the 
California Building Code. 
SECTION 909 
SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS 


909.1 Scope and purpose. This section applies to mechani­cal or passive smoke control systems when they are required for new buildings or portions thereof by provisions of the California Building Code or this code. The purpose of this section is to establish minimum requirements for the design, installation and acceptance testing of smoke control systems that are intended to provide a tenable environment for the evacuation or relocation of occupants. These provisions are not intended for the preservation of contents, the timely resto­ration of operations, or for assistance in fire suppression or overhaul activities. Smoke control systems regulated by this section serve a different purpose than the smoke-and heat­venting provisions found in Section 910. Mechanical smoke control systems shall not be considered exhaust systems under Chapter 5 of the California Mechanical Code. 
909.2 General design requirements. Buildings, structures, or parts thereof required by the California Building Code or this code to have a smoke control system or systems shall have such systems designed in accordance with the applica­ble requirements of Section 909 and the generally accepted and well-established principles of engineering relevant to the design. The construction documents shall include sufficient information and detail to describe adequately the elements of the design necessary for the proper implementation of the smoke control systems. These documents shall be accompa­nied with sufficient information and analysis to demonstrate compliance with these provisions. 
909.3 Special inspection and test requirements. In addition to the ordinary inspection and test requirements which build­ings, structures and parts thereof are required to undergo, smoke control systems subject to the provisions of Section 909 shall undergo special inspections and tests sufficient to verify the proper commissioning of the smoke control design in its final installed condition. The design submission accom­panying the construction documents shall clearly detail pro­cedures and methods to be used and the items subject to such inspections and tests. Such commissioning shall be in accor­dance with generally accepted engineering practice and, where possible, based on published standards for the particu­lar testing involved. The special inspections and tests required by this section shall be conducted under the same terms as in Section 1704 of the California Building Code. 
909.4 Analysis. A rational analysis supporting the types of smoke control systems to be employed, the methods of their operations, the systems supporting them, and the methods of construction to be utilized shall accompany the construction documents submission and include, but not be limited to, the items indicated in Sections 909.4.1 through 909.4.6. 
909.4.1 Stack effect. The system shall be designed such that the maximum probable normal or reverse stack effect will not adversely interfere with the system's capabilities. In determining the maximum probable stack effect, alti­tude, elevation, weather history and interior temperatures shall be used. 
909.4.2 Temperature effect of fire. Buoyancy and expan­sion caused by the design fire in accordance with Section 
909.9 shall be analyzed. The system shall be designed such that these effects do not adversely interfere with the system's capabilities. 
909.4.3 Wind effect. The design shall consider the adverse effects of wind. Such consideration shall be con­sistent with the wind-loading provisions of the California Building Code. 
909.4.4 Systems. The design shall consider the effects of the heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HV AC) sys­tems on both smoke and fire transport. The analysis shall include all permutations of systems status. The design shall consider the effects of the fire on the heating, venti­lating and air-conditioning systems. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
909.4.5 Climate. The design shall consider the effects of low temperatures on systems, property and occupants. Air inlets and exhausts shall be located so as to prevent snow or ice blockage. 
909.4.6 Duration of operation. All portions of active or passive smoke control systems shall be capable of contin­ued operation after detection of the fire event for a period of not less than either 20 minutes or 1.5 times the calcu­lated egress time, whichever is less. 

909.5 Smoke barrier construction. Smoke barriers shall comply with the California Building Code. Smoke barriers shall be constructed and sealed to limit leakage areas exclu­sive of protected openings. The maximum allowable leakage area shall be the aggregate area calculated using the follow­ing leakage area ratios: 
1. 	
Walls: A/Aw = 0.00100 

2. 	
Interior exit stairways and ramps and exit passageways: A/Aw = 0.00035 

3. 	
Enclosed exit access stairways and ramps and all other shafts: A/Aw= 0.00150 

4. 
Floors and roofs: A/AF = 0.00050 


where: 
A 	= Total leakage area, square feet (m2). 
AF = Unit floor or roof area of barrier, square feet (m2). 
Aw= Unit wall area of barrier, square feet (m2). 

The leakage area ratios shown do not include openings due to doors, operable windows or similar gaps. These shall be included in calculating the total leakage area. 
909.5.1 Leakage area. Total leakage area of the barrier is the product of the smoke barrier gross area multiplied by the allowable leakage area ratio, plus the area of other openings such as gaps and operable windows. Compliance shall be determined by achieving the minimum air pres­sure difference across the barrier with the system in the smoke control mode for mechanical smoke control sys­tems. Passive smoke control systems tested using other approved means, such as door fan testing, shall be as approved by the fire code official. 
909.5.2 Opening protection. Openings in smoke barriers shall be protected by self-closing devices or automatic­closing devices actuated by the required controls for the mechanical smoke control system. Door openings shall be protected by fire door assemblies complying with Section 
716.5.3 of the California Building Code. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Passive smoke control systems with automatic­closing devices actuated by spot-type smoke detectors listed for releasing service installed in accordance with Section 907.4. When used in a Group I-2, such detectors shall activate the building fire alarm system and shall close all the smoke barrier doors within the effected zone. 
2. 	
Fixed openings between smoke zones that are protected utilizing the airflow method in other than Group I-2. 

3. 
In Group I-2, where doors are installed across cor­ridors, a pair of opposite-swinging doors without a center mullion or horizontal sliding doors that comply with Section I008.I.4.3. Vision panels < consisting of fire-rated glazing in approved frames shall be provided in each cross-corridor swinging door and at each cross-corridor hori­zontal-sliding door in a smoke barrier. The doors shall be close fitting within operational toler­ances, and shall not have undercuts, louvers or grilles. Swinging doors shall have head and jamb stops and astragals or rabbets at meeting edges. Doors installed across corridors shall be auto­matic closing by smoke detection in accordance with Section 7 I 6.5.9.3 of the California Building Code. Positive-latching devices are required. Doors installed across corridors shall comply with Section I 008.1.1. 

4. 
Group I-3. 

5. 
Openings between smoke zones with clear ceiling heights of 14 feet (4267 mm) or greater and bank­down capacity of greater than 20 minutes as determined by the design fire size. 


6. 	In Group I-2, smoke damper activation may be accomplished by a fire alarm control unit pro­vided that an open area smoke detection system is provided within all areas served by an HVAC system. 
909.5.2.1 Ducts and air transfer openings. Ducts and air transfer openings are required to be protected with a minimum Class II, 250°F (121 oq smoke damper com­plying with Section 717 of the California Building Code. 

909.6 Pressurization method. The primary mechanical means of controlling smoke shall be by pressure differences across smoke barriers. Maintenance of a tenable environment is not required in the smoke-control zone of fire origin. 
909.6.1 Minimum pressure difference. The minimum pressure difference across a smoke barrier shall be 0.05­inch water gage (0.0124 kPa) in fully sprinklered build­ings. 
In buildings allowed to be other than fully sprinklered, the smoke control system shall be designed to achieve pressure differences at least two times the maximum cal­culated pressure difference produced by the design fire. 
909.6.2 Maximum pressure difference. The maximum air pressure difference across a smoke barrier shall be determined by required door-opening or closing forces. The actual force required to open exit doors when the sys­tem is in the smoke control mode shall be in accordance with Section 1008.1.3. Opening and closing forces for 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
other doors shall be determined by standard engineering methods for the resolution of forces and reactions. The calculated force to set a side-hinged, swinging door in motion shall be determined by: 
F =Fdc + K(WAM)/2(W-d) (Equation 9-1) 
where: 
A = 	Door area, square feet (m2). 
d = Distance from door handle to latch edge of door, feet 
(m). 

F = 	Total door opening force, pounds (N). 
Fdc = Force required to overcome closing device, pounds 
(N). 

K = Coefficient 5.2 (1.0). 
W = 	Door width, feet (m). 
t1P = Design pressure difference, inches of water (Pa). 
909.7 Airflow design method. When approved by the fire code official, smoke migration through openings fixed in a permanently open position, which are located between smoke-control zones by the use of the airflow method, shall be permitted. The design airflow shall be in accordance with this section. Airflow shall be directed to limit smoke migra­tion from the fire zone. The geometry of openings shall be considered to prevent flow reversal from turbulent effects. 
909.7.1 Velocity. The minimum average velocity through a fixed opening shall not be less than: 
V= 217.2 [h(1j -T)/(T1 + 460)] 112 (Equation 9-2)
0 

For SI: v= 119.9 [h(T1 -TJ!T/12 
where: 
h = Height of opening, feet (m). 
= Temperature of smoke, °F (K). 
T1 
To = Temperature of ambient air, oF (K). 

v = Air velocity, feet per minute (m/minute). 
909.7.2 Prohibited conditions. This method shall not be employed where either the quantity of air or the velocity of the airflow will adversely affect other portions of the smoke control system, unduly intensify the fire, disrupt plume dynamics or interfere with exiting. In no case shall airflow toward the fire exceed 200 feet per minute (1.02 m/s). Where the formula in Section 909.7.1 requires air­flows to exceed this limit, the airflow method shall not be used. 
909.8 Exhaust method. When approved by the fire code official, mechanical smoke control for large enclosed vol­umes, such as in atriums or malls, shall be permitted to utilize the exhaust method. Smoke control systems using the exhaust method shall be designed in accordance with NFPA 92B. 
909.8.1 Smoke layer. The height of the lowest horizontal surface of the smoke layer interface shall be maintained at least 6 feet (1829 mm) above any walking surface that forms a portion of a required egress system within the smoke zone. 
909.9 Design fire. The design fire shall be based on a rational analysis performed by the registered design professional and approved by the fire code official. The design fire shall be based on the analysis in accordance with Section 909.4 and this section. 
909.9.1 Factors considered. The engineering analysis shall include the characteristics of the fuel, fuel load, effects included by the fire, and whether the fire is likely to be steady or unsteady. 
909.9.2 Design fire fuel. Determination of the design fire shall include consideration of the type of fuel, fuel spacing and configuration. 
909.9.3 Heat-release assumptions. The analysis shall make use of best available data from approved sources and shall not be based on excessively stringent limitations of combustible material. 
909.9.4 Sprinkler effectiveness assumptions. A docu­mented engineering analysis shall be provided for condi­tions that assume fire growth is halted at the time of sprinkler activation. 
909.10 Equipment. Equipment including, but not limited to, fans, ducts, automatic dampers and balance dampers shall be suitable for their intended use, suitable for the probable expo­sure temperatures that the rational analysis indicates, and as approved by the fire code official. 
909.10.1 Exhaust fans. Components of exhaust fans shall be rated and certified by the manufacturer for the probable temperature rise to which the components will be exposed. This temperature rise shall be computed by: 
T, =(QJmc) + (Ta) 	(Equation 9-3) 
where: 
c = 	Specific heat of smoke at smokelayer temperature, Btu/lb°F · (kJ/kg · K). 
m 	Exhaust rate, pounds per second (kg/s). 
Qc = Convective heat output of fire, Btu/s (kW). 
Ta = 	Ambient temperature, °F (K). 
T, = 	Smoke temperature, °F (K). 
Exception: Reduced T, as calculated based on the assurance of adequate dilution air. 
909.10.2 Ducts. Duct materials and joints shall be capable of withstanding the probable temperatures and pressures to which they are exposed as determined in accordance with Section 909.1 0.1. Ducts shall be constructed and sup­ported in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. Ducts shall be leak tested to 1.5 times the maximum design pressure in accordance with nationally accepted practices. Measured leakage shall not exceed 5 percent of design flow. Results of such testing shall be a part of the documentation procedure. Ducts shall be supported directly from fire-resistance-rated structural elements of the building by substantial, noncombustible supports. 
Exception: Flexible connections (for the purpose of vibration isolation) complying with the California Mechanical Code and which are constructed of approved fire-resistance-rated materials. 
909.10.3 Equipment, inlets and outlets. Equipment shall be located so as to not expose uninvolved portions of the building to an additional fire hazard. Outside air inlets shall be located so as to minimize the potential for intro­ducing smoke or flame into the building. Exhaust outlets shall be so located as to minimize reintroduction of smoke into the building and to limit exposure of the building or adjacent buildings to an additional fire hazard. 
909.10.4 Automatic dampers. Automatic dampers, regardless of the purpose for which they are installed within the smoke control system, shall be listed and con­form to the requirements of approved recognized stan­dards. 
909.10.5 Fans. In addition to other requirements, belt­driven fans shall have 1.5 times the number of belts required for the design duty with the minimum number of belts being two. Fans shall be selected for stable perfor­mance based on normal temperature and, where applica­ble, elevated temperature. Calculations and manufac­turer's fan curves shall be part of the documentation pro­cedures. Fans shall be supported and restrained by non­combustible devices in accordance with the structural design requirements of Chapter 16 of the California Build­ing Code. 
Motors driving fans shall not be operated beyond their nameplate horsepower (kilowatts) as determined from measurement of actual current draw and shall have a mini­mum service factor of 1.15. 
909.11 Power systems. The smoke control system shall be supplied with two sources of power. Primary power shall be from the normal building power systems. Secondary power shall be from an approved standby source complying with Section 604 and California Electric Code. The standby power source and its transfer switches shall be in a room separate from the normal power transformers and switch gears and ventilated directly to and from the exterior. The room shall be enclosed with not less than 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Sec­tion 712 of the California Building Code, or both. The trans­fer to full standby power shall be automatic and within 60 seconds of failure of the primary power. 
909.11.1 Power sources and power surges. Elements of the smoke control system relying on volatile memories or the like shall be supplied with uninterruptable power sources of sufficient duration to span 15-minute primary power interruption. Elements of the smoke control system susceptible to power surges shall be suitably protected by conditioners, suppressors or other approved means. 
909.12 Detection and control systems. Fire detection sys­tems providing control input or output signals to mechanical smoke control systems or elements thereof shall comply with the requirements of Section 907. Such systems shall be equipped with a control unit complying with UL 864 and listed as smoke control equipment. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

Control systems for mechanical smoke control systems shall include provisions for verification. Verification shall include positive confirmation of actuation, testing, manual override, the presence of power downstream of all discon­nects and, through a preprogrammed weekly test sequence, report abnormal conditions audibly, visually and by printed report. 
The status of dampers shall be determined using limit or proximity switches installed at the damper or incorporated into the damper actuator. Where multiple dampers are grouped together in an assembly requiring one or more actu­ators, each damper shall be independently controlled by a separate actuator and provided with an individual limit or proximity switch, or the dampers shall be linked together by a reliable and durable mechanical means or otherwise by per­manent means into one or more groups, with each group pro­vided with a common limit or proximity switch. 
The status offans shall be determined by sensing the air flow downstream of the fans using pressure differential switches or transmitters, or by other means ofpositive proof ofair flow where approved by the enforcing authority. 
909.12.1 Wiring. In addition to meeting requirements of California Electrical Code, all wiring, regardless of volt­age, shall be fully enclosed within continuous raceways. 
909.12.2 Activation. Smoke control systems shall be acti­vated in accordance with this section. 
909.12.2.1 Pressurization, airflow or exhaust method. Mechanical smoke control systems using the pressurization, airflow or exhaust method shall have completely automatic control. 
909.12.2.2 Passive method. Passive smoke control systems actuated by approved spot-type detectors listed for releasing service shall be permitted. 

909.12.3 Automatic control. Where completely auto­matic control is required or used, the automatic-control sequences shall be initiated from an appropriately zoned automatic sprinkler system complying with Section 903.3.1.1, manual controls that are readily accessible to the fire department, and any smoke detectors required by the engineering analysis. 
909.13 Control air tubing. Control air tubing shall be of suf­ficient size to meet the required response times. Tubing shall be flushed clean and dry prior to final connections and shall be adequately supported and protected from damage. Tubing passing through concrete or masonry shall be sleeved and protected from abrasion and electrolytic action. 
909.13.1 Materials. Control air tubing shall be hard drawn copper, Type L, ACR in accordance with ASTM B 42, ASTM B 43, ASTM B 68, ASTM B 88, ASTM B 251 and ASTM B 280. Fittings shall be wrought copper or brass, solder type, in accordance with ASME B 16.18 or ASME B 16.22. Changes in direction shall be made with appropriate tool bends. Brass compression-type fittings shall be used at final connection to devices; other joints shall be brazed using a BCuP5 brazing alloy with solidus above 1,100°F (593°C) and liquidus below 1,500°F 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(816°C). Brazing flux shall be used on copper-to-brass joints only. 
Exception: Nonmetallic tubing used within control panels and at the final connection to devices, provided all of the following conditions are met: 
1. 	
Tubing shall comply with the requirements of Section 602.2.1.3 of the California Mechanical Code. 

2. 	
Tubing and the connected device shall be com­pletely enclosed within a galvanized or paint­grade steel enclosure having a minimum thick­ness of 0.0296 inch (0.7534 mm) (No.22 gage). Entry to the enclosure shall be by copper tubing with a protective grommet of neoprene or teflon or by suitable brass compression to male-barbed adapter. 

3. 	
Tubing shall be identified by appropriately docu­mented coding. 

4. 	
Tubing shall be neatly tied and supported within enclosure. Tubing bridging cabinet and door or moveable device shall be of sufficient length to avoid tension and excessive stress. Tubing shall be protected against abrasion. Tubing serving devices on doors shall be fastened along hinges. 



909.13.2 Isolation from other functions. Control tubing serving other than smoke control functions shall be iso­lated by automatic isolation valves or shall be an indepen­dent system. 
909.13.3 Testing. Control air tubing shall be tested at three times the operating pressure for not less than 30 min­utes without any noticeable loss in gauge pressure prior to final connection to devices. 
909.14 Marking and identification. The detection and con­trol systems shall be clearly marked at all junctions, accesses and terminations. 
909.15 Control diagrams. Identical control diagrams show­ing all devices in the system and identifying their location and function shall be maintained current and kept on file with the fire code official, the fire department and in the fire com­mand center in a format and manner approved by the fire chief. 
909.16 Fire-fighter's smoke control panel. A fire-fighter's smoke control panel for fire department emergency response purposes only shall be provided and shall include manual control or override of automatic control for mechanical smoke control systems. The panel shall be located in a fire command center complying with Section 508 in high-rise buildings, Group I-2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access or buildings with smoke-protected assembly seating. In all other buildings, the fire-fighter's smoke control panel shall be installed in an approved location adjacent to the fire alarm control panel. The fire-fighter's smoke control panel shall comply with Sections 909.16.1 through 909.16.3. 
909.16.1 Smoke control systems. Fans within the building shall be shown on the fire-fighter's control panel. A clear indication of the direction of air flow and the relationship of components shall be displayed. Status indicators shall be provided for all smoke control equipment, annunciated by fan and zone and by approved indicators as follows: 
1. 	
Fans, dampers and other operating equipment in their normal status-WHITE. 

2. 	
Fans, dampers and other operating equipment in their offor closed status-RED. 

3. 	
Fans, dampers and other operating equipment in their on or open status-GREEN. 

4. 	
Fans, dampers and other operating equipment in a fault status-YELLOW/AMBER. 


909.16.2 Smoke control panel. The fire-fighter's control panel shall provide control capability over the complete smoke-control system equipment within the building as follows: 
1. 	
ON-AUTO-OFF control over each individual piece of operating smoke control equipment that can also be controlled from other sources within the building. This includes stairway pressurization fans; smoke exhaust fans; supply, return and exhaust fans; eleva­tor shaft fans; and other operating equipment used or intended for smoke control purposes. 

2. 	
OPEN-AUTO-CLOSE control over individual dampers relating to smoke control and that are also controlled from other sources within the building. 

3. 	
ON-OFF or OPEN-CLOSE control over smoke con­trol and other critical equipment associated with a fire or smoke emergency and that can only be con­trolled from the fire-fighter's control panel. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Complex systems, where approved, where the controls and indicators are combined to control and indicate all elements of a single smoke zone as a unit. 

2. 	
Complex systems, where approved, where the control is accomplished by computer interface using approved, plain English commands. 



909.16.3 Control action and priorities. The fire-fighter's control panel actions shall be as follows: 
1. 	ON-OFF and OPEN-CLOSE control actions shall have the highest priority of any control point within the building. Once issued from the fire-fighter's control panel, no automatic or manual control from any other control point within the building shall con­tradict the control action. Where automatic means are provided to interrupt normal, nonemergency equipment operation or produce a specific result to safeguard the building or equipment (i.e., duct freez­estats, duct smoke detectors, high-temperature cut­outs, temperature-actuated linkage and similar devices), such means shall be capable of being over­ridden by the fire-fighter's control panel. The last control action as indicated by each fire-fighter's control panel switch position shall prevail. In no case shall control actions require the smoke control system to assume more than one configuration at any one time. 
Exception: Power disconnects required by the California Electrical Code. 
2. 	Only the AUTO position of each three-position fire­fighter's control panel switch shall allow automatic or manual control action from other control points within the building. The AUTO position shall be the NORMAL, nonemergency, building control posi­tion. Where a fire-fighter's control panel is in the AUTO position, the actual status of the device (on, off, open, closed) shall continue to be indicated by the status indicator described above. When directed by an automatic signal to assume an emergency con­dition, the NORMAL position shall become the emergency condition for that device or group of devices within the zone. In no case shall control actions require the smoke control system to assume more than one configuration at any one time. 

909.17 System response time. Smoke-control system activa­tion shall be initiated immediately after receipt of an appro­priate automatic or manual activation command. Smoke control systems shall activate individual components (such as dampers and fans) in the sequence necessary to prevent phys­ical damage to the fans, dampers, ducts and other equipment. For purposes of smoke control, the fire-fighter's control panel response time shall be the same for automatic or manual smoke control action initiated from any other building control point. The total response time, including that necessary for detection, shutdown of operating equipment and smoke con­trol system startup, shall allow for full operational mode to be achieved before the conditions in the space exceed the design smoke condition. The system response time for each compo­nent and their sequential relationships shall be detailed in the required rational analysis and verification of their installed condition reported in the required final report. 
909.18 Acceptance testing. Devices, equipment, compo­nents and sequences shall be individually tested. These tests, in addition to those required by other provisions of this code, shall consist of determination of function, sequence and, where applicable, capacity of their installed condition. 
909.18.1 Detection devices. Smoke or fire detectors that are a part of a smoke control system shall be tested in accordance with Chapter 9 in their installed condition. When applicable, this testing shall include verification of airflow in both minimum and maximum conditions. 
909.18.2 Ducts. Ducts that are part of a smoke control sys­tem shall be traversed using generally accepted practices to determine actual air quantities. 
909.18.3 Dampers. Dampers shall be tested for function in their installed condition. 
909.18.4 Inlets and outlets. Inlets and outlets shall be read using generally accepted practices to determine air quantities. 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
909.18.5 Fans. Fans shall be examined for correct rota­tion. Measurements of voltage, amperage, revolutions per minute and belt tension shall be made. 
909.18.6 Smoke barriers. Measurements using inclined manometers or other approved calibrated measuring devices shall be made of the pressure differences across smoke barriers. Such measurements shall be conducted for each possible smoke control condition. 
909.18.7 Controls. Each smoke zone equipped with an automatic-initiation device shall be put into operation by the actuation of one such device. Each additional device within the zone shall be verified to cause the same sequence without requiring the operation of fan motors in order to prevent damage. Control sequences shall be veri­fied throughout the system, including vetification of over­ride from the fire-fighter's control panel and simulation of standby power conditions. 
909.18.8 Special inspections for smoke control. Smoke control systems shall be tested by a special inspector. 
909.18.8.1 Scope of testing. Special inspections shall be conducted in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Dming erection of ductwork and prior to conceal­ment for the purposes of leakage testing and recording of device location. 

2. 	
Prior to occupancy and after sufficient comple­tion for the purposes of pressure-difference test­ing, flow measurements, and detection and control verification. 


909.18.8.2 Qualifications. Special inspection agencies for smoke control shall have expertise in fire protection engineering, mechanical engineering and certification as air balancers. 
909.18.8.3 Reports. A complete report of testing shall be prepared by the special inspector or special inspec­tion agency. The report shall include identification of all devices by manufacturer, nameplate data, design values, measured values and identification tag or mark. The report shall be reviewed by the responsible regis­tered design professional and, when satisfied that the design intent has been achieved, the responsible regis­tered design professional shall seal, sign and date the report. 
909.18.8.3.1 Report filing. A copy of the final report shall be filed with the fire code official and an identical copy shall be maintained in an approved location at the building. 

909.18.9 Identification and documentation. Charts, drawings and other documents identifying and locating each component of the smoke control system, and describ­ing their proper function and maintenance requirements, shall be maintained on file at the building as an attachment to the report required by Section 909.18.8.3. Devices shall have an approved identifying tag or mark on them consis­tent with the other required documentation and shall be dated indicating the last time they were successfully tested and by whom. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
An approved operations manual describing the com­plete operations ofthe smoke control system and function­ing of the fire-fighter's smoke control panel shall be maintained at the fire command center. 
909.19 System acceptance. Buildings, or portions thereof, required by this code to comply with this section shall not be issued a certificate of occupancy until such time that the fire code official determines that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with and that the fire department has received satisfactory instruction on the operation, both automatic and manual, of the system and a written mainte­nance program complying with the requirements of Section 
909.20.1 has been submitted and approved by the fire code official. 
Exception: In buildings of phased construction, a tempo­rary certificate of occupancy, as approved by the fire code official, shall be allowed, provided that those p01tions of the building to be occupied meet the requirements of this section and that the remainder does not pose a significant hazard to the safety of the proposed occupants or adjacent buildings. 
909.20 Maintenance. Smoke control systems shall be main­tained to ensure to a reasonable degree that the system is capable of controlling smoke for the duration required. The system shall be maintained in accordance with the manufac­turer's instructions and Sections 909.20.1 through 909.20.5. 
909.20.1 Schedule. A routine maintenance and opera­tional testing program shall be initiated immediately after the smoke control system has passed the acceptance tests. A written schedule for routine maintenance and opera­tional testing shall be established. 
909.20.2 Written record. A written record of smoke con­trol system testing and maintenance shall be maintained on the premises. The written record shall include the date of the maintenance, identification of the servicing personnel and notification of any unsatisfactory condition and the conective action taken, including parts replaced. 
909.20.3 Testing. Operational testing of the smoke control system shall include all equipment such as initiating devices, fans, dampers, controls, doors and windows. 
909.20.4 Dedicated smoke control systems. Dedicated smoke control systems shall be operated for each control sequence semiannually. The system shall also be tested under standby power conditions. 
909.20.5 Nondedicated smoke control systems. Non­dedicated smoke control systems shall be operated for each control sequence annually. The system shall also be tested under standby power conditions. 
SECTION 910 
SMOKE AND HEAT REMOVAL 


910.1 General. Where required by this code or otherwise installed, smoke and heat vents or mechanical smoke exhaust systems and draft curtains shall conform to the requirements of this section. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Frozen food warehouses used solely for storage of Class I and II commodities where protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system. < 
2. 	Automatic smoke and heat vents or mechanical smoke exhaust systems are not required within areas of buildings equipped with early suppression fast­response (ESFR) sprinklers unless any ofthe follow­ing conditions exist: 
2.1. The building is a state institution, 
2.2. The building is a state-owned or state-occupied building, 
2.3. The building is any of the applications listed in Section 1.11 regulated by the Office ofthe State Fire Marshal, or 
2.4. 	The area ofa Group F-1 or S-1 occupancy pro­tected with the early suppression fast-response (ESFR) sprinklers has an exit access travel dis­tance ofmore than 250 feet (76 200 mm). 
910.2 Where required. Smoke and heat vents or mechancal smoke exhaust systems shall be installed in the roofs of build­ings or portions thereof occupied for the uses set forth in Sec­tions 910.2.1 and 910.2.2. 
Exception: In occupied portions of a building where the upper surface of the story is not a roof assembly, mechani­cal smoke exhaust in accordance with Section 910.4 shall be an acceptable alternative. 
910.2.1 Group F-1 or S-1. Buildings and portions thereof used as a Group F-1 or S-1 occupancy having more than 50,000 square feet ( 4645 m2) of undivided area. 
Exception: Group F-1 aircraft manufacturing build­ings and Group S-1 aircraft repair hangars. 
910.2.2 High-piled combustible storage. Buildings and portions thereof containing high-piled combustible stock or rack storage in any occupancy group when required by Section 3206.7. 
910.3 Design and installation. The design and installation of smoke and heat vents and draft curtains shall be as specified in Sections 910.3.1 through 910.3.5.2 and Table 910.3. 
910.3.1 Design. Smoke and heat vents shall be listed and labeled to indicate compliance with FM 4430, ICC-ES AC 331, or UL 793. 
910.3.2 Vent operation. Smoke and heat vents shall be capable of being operated by approved automatic and manual means. Automatic operation of smoke and heat vents shall conform to the provisions of Sections 910.3.2.1 through 910.3.2.3. 
910.3.2.1 Gravity-operated drop-out vents. Auto­matic smoke and heat vents containing heat-sensitive 
> 

FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
glazing designed to shrink and drop out of the vent opening when exposed to fire shall fully open within 5 minutes after the vent cavity is exposed to a simulated fire, represented by a time-temperature gradient that reaches an air temperature of 500°F (260°C) within 5 minutes. 
910.3.2.2 Sprinklered buildings. Where installed in buildings provided with an approved automatic sprin­kler system, smoke and heat vents shall be designed in accordance with Sections 910.3.2.2.1 through 
91 0.3.2.2.3. 
910.3.2.2.1 Automatic operation. Smoke and heat vents shall be designed to operate automatically. 
91 0.3.2.2.2 Control mode sprinkler system. Smoke and heat vents installed in areas ofbuildings with a control mode sprinkler system shall have operating elements with a higher temperature classification than the automatic fire sprinklers in accordance with NFPA 13. 
910.3.2.2.3 Early suppression fast-response (ESFR) sprinkler system. Smoke and heat vents installed in areas of buildings with early suppres­sion fast-response (ESFR) sprinklers shall be equipped with a standard-response operating mech­anism with a minimum temperature rating of360°F (182°C) or JOOoF (56°C) above the operating tem­perature ofthe sprinklers, whichever is higher. 
910.3.2.3 Nonsprinklered buildings. Where installed in buildings not provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system, smoke and heat vents shall operate automatically by actuation of a heat-responsive device rated at between 100°F (38°C) and 220°F (104°C) above ambient. 
Exception: Gravity-operated drop-out vents com­plying with Section 910.3.2.1. 

910.3.3 Vent dimensions. The effective venting area shall not be less than 16 square feet (1.5 m2) with no dimension less than 4 feet (1219 mm), excluding ribs or gutters hav­ing a total width not exceeding 6 inches (152 mm). 
910.3.4 Vent locations. Smoke and heat vents shall be located 20 feet (6096 mm) or more from adjacent lot lines and fire walls and 10 feet (3048 mm) or more from fire barriers. Vents shall be uniformly located within the roof in the areas of the building where the vents are required to be installed by Section 910.2, with consideration given to 
TABLE 910.3 
REQUIREMENTS FOR DRAFT CURTAINS AND SMOKE AND HEAT VENTS• 


OCCUPANCY GROUP AND COMMODITY CLASSIFICATION  DESIGNATED STORAGE HEIGHT (feet)  MINIMUM DRAFT CURTAIN DEPTH (feet)  MAXIMUM AREA FORMED BY DRAFT CURTAINS (square feet)  VENT-AREA­TO FLOOR­AREA RATI0°  MAXIMUM SPACING OF VENT CENTERS (feet)  MAXIMUM DISTANCE FROM VENTS TO WALL OR DRAFT CURTAINb (feet)  
Group F-1 and S-1  - 0.2 x Hd but :2: 4  50,000  1:100  120  60  
High-piled storage (see Section 910.2.2) Class I-IV Commodities (Option 1)  ::;20  6  10,000  1:100  100  60  
> 20 ::;4o  6  8,000  1:75  100  55  
High-piled storage (see Section 910.2.2) Class I-IV Commodities (Option 2)  ::;20  4  3,000  1:75  100  55  
>20::;40  4  3,000  1:50  100  50  
High-piled storage (see Section 910.2.2) High-hazard Commodi­ties (Option 1)  ::;2o  6  6,000  1:50  100  50  
> 20::; 30  6  6,000  1:40  90  45  
High-piled storage (see Section 910.2.2) High-hazard Commodi­ties (Option 2)  ::;2o  4  4,000  1:50  100  50  
> 20::; 30  4  2,000  1:30  75  40  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2. 
a. 	
Additional requirements for rack storage heights in excess of those indicated shall be in accordance with Chapter 32. For solid-piled storage heights in excess of those indicated, an approved engineered design shall be used. 

b. 
Vents adjacent to walls or draft curtains shall be located within a horizontal distance not greater than the maximum distance specified in this column as measured perpendicular to the wall or draft curtain that forms the perimeter of the draft curtained area. 

c. 
Where draft curtains are not required, the vent area to floor area ratio shall be calculated based on a minimum draft curtain depth of 6 feet (Option 1). 

d. 
"H" is the height of the vent, in feet, above the floor. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
roof pitch, draft curtain location, sprinkler location and structural members. 
910.3.5 Draft curtains. Where required by Table 910.3, draft c urtains shall be installed on the underside of the roof in accordance with this section. 
Exception: Where areas of buildings are equipped with ESFR sprinklers, draft curtains shall not be provided within these areas. Draft curtains shall only be provided at the separation between the ESFR sprinklers and the non-ESFR sprinklers. 
910.3.5.1 Construction. Draft curtains shall be con­structed of sheet metal, lath and plaster, gypsum board or other approved materials that provide equivalent per­formance to resist the passage of smoke. Joints and connections shall be smoke tight. 
910.3.5.2 Location and depth. The location and mini­mum depth of draft curtains shall be in accordance with Table 910.3. 
> 	910.4 Mechanical smoke exhaust. Engineered mechanical smoke exhaust systems shall be an acceptable alternative to smoke and heat vents. 
> 	910.4.1 Location. Exhaust fans shall be uniformly spaced and the maximum distance between fans shall not be greater than 100 feet (30 480 mm). 
910.4.2 Size. Fans shall have a maximum individual capacity of 30,000 cfm (14.2 m3/s). For sprinkle red build­ings, the aggregate capacity of smoke exhaust fans shall provide a minimum oftwo complete air changes per hour, based on the volume of the building or portions thereof without deduction for any commodity storage. For non­sprinklered buildings, the aggregate capacity of smoke exhaust fans shall be determined by the equation: 
C =A x 300 (Equation 9-4) where: 
C = 	Capacity of mechanical ventilation required, in cubic feet per minute (m3/s). 
A = Area of roof vents provided in square feet (m2) in accordance with Table 910.3. 
910.4.3 Operation. Mechanical smoke exhaust fans shall be automatically activated by the automatic sprinkler sys­tem or by heat detectors having operating characteristics equivalent to those described in Section 910.3.2. Individ­ual manual controls for each fan unit shall also be pro­vided. 
910.4.4 Wiring and control. Wiring for operation and control of smoke exhaust fans shall be connected ahead of the main disconnect and protected against exposure to temperatures in excess of 1,000°F (538°C) for a period of not less than 15 minutes. Controls shall be located so as to be immediately accessible to the fire service from the exte­rior of the building and protected against interior fire exposure by not less than 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 
184 
910.4.5 Supply air. Supply air for exhaust fans shall be provided at or near the floor level and shall be sized to provide a minimum of 50 percent of required exhaust. Openings for supply air shall be uniformly distributed around the periphery of the area served. 
910.4.6 Interlocks. On combination comfort air-handling/ smoke removal systems or independent comfort air-han­dling systems, fans shall be controlled to shut down in accordance with the approved smoke control sequence. 
910.5 Maintenance. Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke exhaust systems shall be maintained in an operative con­dition in accordance with NFP A 204. Fusible links shall be promptly replaced whenever fused, damaged or painted. Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke exhaust systems shall not be modified. 
SECTION 911 
EXPLOSION CONTROL 


911.1 General. Explosion control shall be provided in the following locations: 
1. 	
Where a structure, room or space is occupied for pur­poses involving explosion hazards as identified in Table 911.1. 

2. 	
Where quantities of hazardous materials specified in Table 911.1 exceed the maximum allowable quantities in Table 5003.1.1(1). 


Such areas shall be provided with explosion (deflagration) venting, explosion (deflagration) prevention systems, or bar­ricades in accordance with this section and NFPA 69, or NFP A 495 as applicable. Deflagration venting shall not be utilized as a means to protect buildings from detonation haz­ards. 
911.2 Required deflagration venting. Areas that are required to be provided with deflagration venting shall com­ply with the following: 
1. 	
Wails, ceilings and roofs exposing surrounding areas shall be designed to resist a minimum internal pressure of 100 pounds per square foot (psf) (4788 Pa). The minimum internal design pressure shall not be less than five times the maximum internal relief pressure speci­fied in Section 911.2, Item 5. 

2. 	
Deflagration venting shall be provided only in exterior walls and roofs. 

Exception: Where sufficient exterior wall and roof venting cannot be provided because of inadequate exterior wall or roof area, deflagration venting shall be allowed by specially designed shafts vented to the exterior of the building. 

3. 	
Deflagration venting shall be designed to prevent unac­ceptable structural damage. Where relieving a deflagra­tion, vent closures shall not produce projectiles of sufficient velocity and mass to cause life threatening injuries to the occupants or other persons on the prop­erty or adjacent public ways. 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 

TABLE 911.1 EXPLOSION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS 

MATERIAL  CLASS  EXPLOSION CONTROL METHODS  
Barricade construction  Explosion (deflagration) venting or explosion (deflagration) prevention systems  
Hazard Category  
Combustible dustsa  - Not required  Required  
Cryogenic fluids  Flammable  Not required  Required  
Explosives  Division 1.1 Division 1.2 Division 1.3 Division 1.4 Division 1.5 Division 1.6  Required Required Not required Not required Required Required  Not required Not required Required Required Not required Not required  
Flammable gas  Gaseous Liquefied  Not required Not required  Required Required  
Flammable liquids  lAb IB'  Not required Not required  Required Required  
Organic peroxides  Unclassified detonable I  Required Required  Not permitted Not permitted  
Oxidizer liquids and solids  4  Required  Not permitted  
Pyrophoric  Gases  Not required  Required  
Unstable (reactive)  4 3 detonable 3 nondetonable  Required Required Not required  Not permitted Not permitted Required  
Water-reactive liquids and solids  3 2e  Not required Not required  Required Required  
Special Uses  
Acetylene generator rooms  - Not required  Required  
Grain processing  - Not required  Required  
Liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities  - Not required  Required  
Where explosion hazards existd  Detonation Deflagration  Required Not required  Not permitted Required  

a. 
Combustible dusts that are generated during manufacturing or processing. See definition of Combustible Dust in Chapter 22. 

b. 
Storage or use. 

c. 
In open use or dispensing. 

d. 	
Rooms containing dispensing and use of hazardous materials when an explosive environment can occur because of the characteristics or nature of the hazardous materials or as a result of the dispensing or use process. 

e. 
A method of explosion control shall be provided when Class 2 water-reactive materials can form potentially explosive mixtures. 


4. 
The aggregate clear area of vents and venting devices shall be governed by the pressure resistance of the con­struction assemblies specified in Item 1 of this section and the maximum internal pressure allowed by Item 5 of this section. 

5. 	
Vents shall be designed to withstand loads in accor­dance with the California Building Code. Vents shall consist of any one or any combination of the following to relieve at a maximum internal pressure of 20 pounds per square foot (958 Pa), but not less than the loads required by the California Building Code: 


5.I. Exterior walls designed to release outward. 
5.2. Hatch covers. 
5.3. Outward swinging doors. 
5.4. Roofs designed to uplift. 

5.5. 
Venting devices listed for the purpose. 


6. 	
Vents designed to release from the exterior walls or roofs of the building when venting a deflagration shall discharge directly to the exterior of the building where an unoccupied space not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) in width is provided between the exterior walls of the building and the lot line. 

Exception: Vents complying with Item 7 of this section. 


7. 	
Vents designed to remain attached to the building when venting a deflagration shall be so located that the dis­charge opening shall not be less than 10 feet (3048 mm) vertically from window openings and exits in the build­ing and 20 feet (6096 mm) horizontally from exits in 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
the building, from window openings and exits in adja­cent buildings on the same lot, and from the lot line. 
8. 	Discharge from vents shall not be into the interior of the building. 
911.3 Explosion prevention systems. Explosion prevention systems shall be of an approved type and installed in accor­dance with the provisions of this code and NFP A 69. 
911.4 Barricades. Banicades shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 495. 
SECTION 912 
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS 


912.1 Installation. Fire department connections shall be installed in accordance with the NFP A standard applicable to the system design and shall comply with Sections 912.2 through 912.6. 
912.2 Location. With respect to hydrants, driveways, build­ings and landscaping, fire department connections shall be so located that fire apparatus and hose connected to supply the system will not obstruct access to the buildings for other fire apparatus. The location of fire department connections shall be approved by the fire chief. 
912.2.1 Visible location. Fire department connections shall be located on the street side of buildings, fully visible and recognizable from the street or nearest point of fire department vehicle access or as otherwise approved by the fire chief. 
912.2.2 Existing buildings. On existing buildings, wher­ever the fire department connection is not visible to approaching fire apparatus, the fire department connection shall be indicated by an approved sign mounted on the street front or on the side of the building. Such sign shall have the letters "FDC" at least 6 inches (152 mm) high and words in letters at least 2 inches (51 mm) high or an anow to indicate the location. All such signs shall be sub­ject to the approval of the fire code official. 
912.3 Access. Immediate access to fire department connec­tions shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences, bushes, trees, walls or any other fixed or moveable object. Access to fire department connections shall be approved by the fire chief. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Fences, where provided with an access gate equipped with a sign complying with the legend requirements of Section 912.4 and a means of emer­gency operation. The gate and the means of emer­gency operation shall be approved by the fire chief and maintained operational at all times. 
2. 	When acceptable to the fire enforcing agency, fire department connections for Group 1-3 detention facilities may be located inside all security walls or fences on the property. 
912.3.1 Locking fire department connection caps. The fire code official is authorized to require locking caps on fire department connections for water-based fire protec­tion systems where the responding fire department canies appropriate key wrenches for removal. 
912.3.2 Clear space around connections. A working space of not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm) in height shall be provided and maintained in front of and to the sides of wall-mounted fire department connections and around the circumference of free-standing fire department connections, except as otherwise required or approved by the fire chief. 
912.3.3 Physical protection. Where fire department con­nections are subject to impact by a motor vehicle, vehicle impact protection shall be provided in accordance with Section 312. 
912.4 Signs. A metal sign with raised letters at least 1 inch (25 mm) in size shall be mounted on all fire department con­nections serving automatic sprinklers, standpipes or fire pump connections. Such signs shall read: AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS or STAND PIPES or TEST CONNECTION or a combination thereof as applicable. Where the fire depart­ment connection does not serve the entire building, a sign shall be provided indicating the portions of the building served. 
912.5 Backflow protection. The potable water supply to automatic sprinkler and standpipe systems shall be protected against backflow as required by the Health and Safety Code Section 13114. 7. 
912.6 Inspection, testing and maintenance. All fire depart­ment connections shall be periodically inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 5. 
SECTION 913 
FIRE PUMPS 


913.1 General. Where provided, fire pumps shall be installed in accordance with this section and NFPA 20. 
913.2 Protection against interruption of service. The fire pump, driver, and controller shall be protected in accordance with NFPA 20 against possible intenuption of service through damage caused by explosion, fire, flood, earthquake, rodents, insects, windstorm, freezing, vandalism and other adverse conditions. 
913.2.1 Protection of fire pump rooms. Rooms where fire pumps are located shall be separated from all other areas of the building in accordance with Section 913.2.1 of the California Building Code. 
913.3 Temperature of pump room. Suitable means shall be provided for maintaining the temperature of a pump room or pump house, where required, above 40°F (5°C). 
913.3.1 Engine manufacturer's recommendation. Tem­perature of the pump room, pump house or area where engines are installed shall never be less than the minimum recommended by the engine manufacturer. The engine manufacturer's recommendations for oil heaters shall be followed. 
913.4 Valve supervision. Where provided, the fire pump suction, discharge and bypass valves, and the isolation valves on the backflow prevention device or assembly shall be supervised open by one of the following methods. 
1. 	
Central-station, proprietary or remote-station signaling service. 

2. 
Local signaling service that will cause the sounding of an audible signal at a constantly attended location. 

3. 
Locking valves open. 

4. 
Sealing 	of valves and approved weekly recorded inspection where valves are located within fenced enclosures under the control of the owner. 


913.4.1 Test outlet valve supervision. Fire pump test out­let valves shall be supervised in the closed position. 

913.5 Testing and maintenance. Fire pumps shall be inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with the requirements of this section and California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division I, Chapter 5. 
913.5.1 Acceptance test. Acceptance testing shall be done in accordance with the requirements of NFP A 20. 
913.5.2 Generator sets. Engine generator sets supplying emergency or standby power to fire pump assemblies shall be periodically tested in accordance with NFP A 110. 
913.5.3 Transfer switches. Automatic transfer switches shall be periodically tested in accordance with NFP A 110. 
913.5.4 Pump room environmental conditions. Tests of pump room environmental conditions, including heating, ventilation and illumination shall be made to ensure proper manual or automatic operation of the associated equip­ment. 

913.6 Fire pumps in high-rise buildings. Engine-driven fire pumps and electric drive fire pumps supplied by generators shall both be provided with an on-premises fuel supply, suffi­cient for not less than 8-hour full-demand operation at 100 percent of the rated pump capacity in addition to all other 
> required supply demands in accordance with Sections 9.6 and 11.4.2 ofNFPA 20 and this section. 
SECTION 914 
FIRE PROTECTION BASED ON SPECIAL DETAILED 
REQUIREMENTS OF USE AND OCCUPANCY 

914.1 General. This section shall specify where fire protec­tion systems are required based on the detailed requirements of use and occupancy of the California Building Code. 
914.2 Covered and open mall buildings. Covered and open mall buildings shall comply with Sections 914.2.1 through 
914.2.4. 
914.2.1 Automatic sprinkler system. Covered and open mall buildings and buildings connected shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1, which shall comply with the all of the following: 
1. 	The automatic sprinkler system shall be complete and operative throughout occupied space in the mall 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
building prior to occupancy of any of the tenant spaces. Unoccupied tenant spaces shall be similarly protected unless provided with approved alternative protection. 
2. 
Sprinkler protection for the mall of a covered mall building shall be independent from that provided for tenant spaces or anchor buildings. 

3. 
Sprinkler protection for the tenant spaces of an open mall building shall be independent from that pro­vided for anchor buildings. 

4. 
Sprinkler protection shall be provided beneath exte­rior circulation balconies located adjacent to an open mall. 

5. 
Where tenant spaces are supplied by the same sys­tem, they shall be independently controlled. 


Exception: An automatic sprinkler system shall not be required in spaces or areas of open parking garages sep­arated from the covered or open mall in accordance with Section 402.4.2.3 of the California Building Code and constructed in accordance with Section 406.5 of the 
California Building Code. 

914.2.2 Standpipe system. The covered and open mall 
building shall be equipped throughout with a standpipe system as required by Section 905.3.3. 
914.2.3 Emergency voice/alarm communication sys­tem. Where the total floor area exceeds 50,000 square feet ( 4645 m2) within either a covered mall building or within the perimeter line of an open mall building, an emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be provided. 
Emergency voice/alarm communication systems serving a mall, required or otherwise, shall be accessible to the fire department. The system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. 
914.2.4 Fire department access to equipment. Rooms or areas containing controls for air-conditioning systems, automatic fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems or other detection, suppression or control ele­ments shall be identified for use by the fire department. 
914.3 High-rise buildings. High-rise buildings and Group 1­2 occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest level offire department vehicle access 
shall comply with Sections 914.3.1 through 914.3.6 
914.3.1 Automatic sprinkler system. Buildings and structures shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and a secondary water supply where required by Section 
903.3.5.2. A sprinkler water-flow alarm-initiating device and a control valve with a supervisory signal-initiating device shall be provided at the lateral connection to the riser on each floor. 
Exception: An automatic sprinkler system shall not be required in open parking garages in accordance with < Section 406.3 of the California Building Code. 
914.3.1.1 Number of sprinkler risers and system design. Each sprinkler system zone in buildings that are more than 420 feet (128 m) in height shall be sup­plied by a minimum of two risers. Each riser shall sup­ply sprinklers on alternate floors. If more than two risers are provided for a zone, sprinklers on adjacent floors shall not be supplied from the same riser. 

914.3.1.1.1 Riser location. Sprinkler risers shall be placed in interior exit stairways and ramps that are remotely located in accordance with Section 1015.2. 

914.3.1.2 Water supply to required fire pumps. Required fire pumps shall be supplied by connections to a minimum of two water mains located in different streets. Separate supply piping shall be provided between each connection to the water main and the pumps. Each connection and the supply piping between the connection and the pumps shall be sized to supply the flow and pressure required for the pumps to oper­ate. 
Exception: Two connections to the same main shall be permitted provided the main is valved such that an intenuption can be isolated so that the water sup­ply will continue without intetruption through at least one of the connections. 

914.3.2 Fire alarm system. A fire alarm system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.2.13. 
914.3.3 Automatic smoke detection. Smoke detection shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.2.13.1. 
914.3.4 Emergency voice/alarm communication sys­tem. An emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.6.2.2. 
914.3.5 Emergency responder radio coverage. Emer­gency responder radio coverage shall be provided in accordance with Section 510. 
914.3.6 Fire command. A fire command center comply­ing with Section 508 shall be provided in a location approved by the fire department. 
914.3.7 Smoke control. 
914.3.7.1 Smoke control system. All portions of high­rise buildings shall be provided with a smoke control system in accordance with California Building Code, Section 909. 
914.3.7.2 Smokeproof exit enclosures. Every exit enclosure in high-rise buildings shall comply with Cal­ifornia Building Code, Sections 909.20 and 1022.9. Every required stairway in Group 1-2 occupancies serving floors more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall comply with Sections 909.20 and 1022.9. 
914.4 Atriums. Atriums shall comply with Sections 914.4.1 and 914.4.2. 
914.4.1 Automatic sprinkler system. An approved auto­matic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the entire building. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	That area of a building adjacent to or above the atrium need not be sprinklered, provided that por­tion of the building is separated from the atrium portion by not less than a 2-hour fire barrier con­structed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assem­blies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 

2. 	Where the ceiling of the atrium is more than 55 feet (16 764 mm) above the floor, sprinkler pro­tection at the ceiling of the atrium is not required. 
914.4.2 Fire alarm system. A fire alarm system shall be provided where required by Section 907.2.14. 
914.5 Underground buildings. Underground buildings shall comply with Sections 914.5.1 through 914.5.5. 
914.5.1 Automatic sprinkler system. The highest level of exit discharge serving the underground portions of the building and all levels below shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Water-flow switches and control valves shall be supervised in accordance with Section 903.4. 
914.5.2 Smoke control system. A smoke control system is required to control the migration of products of combus­tion in accordance with Section 909 and provisions of this section. Smoke control shall restrict movement of smoke to the general area of fire origin and maintain means of egress in a usable condition. 
914.5.3 Compartment smoke control system. Where compartmentation is required by Section 405.4 of the Cal­ifornia Building Code, each compartment shall have an independent smoke-control system. The system shall be automatically activated and capable of manual operation in accordance with Section 907.2.18. 
914.5.4 Fire alarm system. A fire alarm system shall be provided where required by Sections 907.2.18 and 
907.2.19. 
914.5.5 Standpipe system. The underground building shall be provided throughout with a standpipe system in accordance with Section 905. 
914.6 Stages. Stages shall comply with Sections 914.6.1 and 
914.6.2. 
914.6.1 Automatic sprinkler system. Stages shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accor­dance with Section 903.3 .1.1. Sprinklers shall be installed under the roof and gridiron and under all catwalks and gal­leries over the stage. Sprinklers shall be installed in dress­ing rooms, performer lounges, shops and storerooms accessory to such stages. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Sprinklers are not required under stage areas less than 4 feet (1219 mm) in clear height utilized exclusively for storage of tables and chairs, pro­vided the concealed space is separated from the adjacent spaces by not less than \-inch (15.9 mm) Type X gypsum board. 

2. 	
Sprinklers are not required for stages 1,000 square feet (93 m2) or less in area and 50 feet (15 240 mm) or less in height where curtains, scenery or other combustible hangings are not retractable 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS 
vertically. Combustible hangings shall be limited to a single main curtain, borders, legs and a single backdrop. 
3. 	Sprinklers are not required within portable orchestra enclosures on stages. 
914.6.2 Standpipe system. Standpipe systems shall be provided in accordance with Section 905. 

914.7 Special amusement buildings. Special amusement buildings shall comply with Sections 914.7.1 and 914.7.2. 
914.7.1 Automatic sprinkler system. Special amusement buildings shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Where the special amusement building is temporary, the sprinkler water supply shall be of an approved temporary means. 
Exception: Automatic sprinklers are not required where the total floor area of a temporary special amuse­ment building is less than 1,000 square feet (93m2) and the travel distance from any point to an exit is less than 50 feet (15 240 mm). 
914.7.2 Automatic smoke detection. Special amusement buildings shall be equipped with an automatic smoke detection system in accordance with Section 907.2.12. 

914.8 Aircraft-related occupancies. Aircraft-related occu­pancies shall comply with Sections 914.8.1 through 914.8.5. 
914.8.1 Automatic smoke detection systems. Airport traffic control towers shall be provided with an automatic smoke detection system installed in accordance with Sec­tion 907.2.22. 
914.8.2 Fire suppression. Aircraft hangars shall be pro­vided with a fire suppression system designed in accor­dance with NFPA 409, based upon the classification for the hangar given in Table 914.8.2. 
Exception: When a fixed base operator has separate 
repair facilities on site, Group II hangars operated by a 
fixed base operator used for storage of transient aircraft only shall have a fire suppression system, but the sys­tem shall be exempt from foam requirements. 
914.8.2.1 Hazardous operations. Any Group III air­craft hangar according to Table 914.8.2 that contains hazardous operations including, but not limited to, the following shall be provided with a Group I or II fire suppression system in accordance with NFP A 409 as applicable: 
1. 	
Doping. 

2. 	
Hot work including, but not limited to, welding, torch cutting and torch soldering. 

3. 	
Fuel transfer. 

4. 
Fuel tank repair 	or maintenance not including defueled tanks in accordance with NFP A 409, inerted tanks or tanks that have never been fueled. 

5. 
Spray finishing operations. 

6. 	
Total fuel capacity of all aircraft within the unsprinklered single fire area in excess of 1,600 gallons (6057 L). 

7. 	
Total fuel capacity of all aircraft within the maxi­mum single fire area in excess of 7,500 gallons (28 390 L) for a hangar equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1. 


914.8.2.2 Separation of maximum single fire areas. Maximum single fire areas established in accordance with hangar classification and construction type in Table 914.8.2 shall be separated by 2-hour fire walls constructed in accordance with Section 706 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. In determining the maximum single fire area as set forth in Table 914.8.2, ancillary uses which are separated from aircraft servicing areas by a minimum of a 1-hour fire barrier constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code shall not be included in the area. 


For SI: 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 
Aircraft hangars with a door height greater than 28 feet shall be provided with fire suppression for a Group I hangar regardless of maximum fire area. 

b. 
Groups shall be as classified in accordance with NFPA 409. 

c. 
Membrane structures complying with Section 3102 of the California Building Code shall be classified as a Group IV hangar. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
914.8.3 Finishing. The process of "doping," involving the use of a volatile flammable solvent, or of painting shall be carried on in a separate detached building equipped with automatic fire-extinguishing equipment in accordance with Section 903. 
914.8.4 Residential aircraft hangar smoke alarms. 
Smoke alarms shall be provided within residential aircraft hangars in accordance with Section 907.2.21. 
914.8.5 Aircraft paint hangar fire suppression. Aircraft paint hangars shall be provided with fire suppression as required by NFP A 409. 
914.9 Application of flammable finishes. An automatic sprinkler system or fire-extinguishing system shall be pro­vided in all spray, dip and immersing spaces and storage rooms, and shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 9. 
914.10 Drying rooms. Drying rooms designed for high-haz­ard materials and processes, including special occupancies as provided for in Chapter 4 of the California Building Code, shall be protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguish­ing system complying with the provisions of Chapter 9. 
914.11 Ambulatory care facilities. Occupancies classified as ambulatory care facilities shall comply with Sections 
914.11.1 through 914.11.3. 
914.11.1 Automatic sprinkler systems. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for ambulatory care facilities in accordance with Section 903.2.2. 
914.11.2 Manual fire alarm systems. A manual fire alarm system shall be provided for ambulatory care facili­ties in accordance with Section 907.2.2. 
914.11.3 Fire alarm systems. An automatic smoke detec­tion system shall be provided for ambulatory care facilities in accordance with Section 907 .2.2.1. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 10-MEANS OF EGRESS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
> 
> > 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

CHAPTER 10-MEANS OF EGRESS-continued 

> 
> 
> 
> 
* The Califonua Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Californza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, 
SECTION 1001 
ADMINISTRATION 


1001.1 General. Buildings or portions thereof shall be pro­vided with a means of egress system as required by this chap­ter. The provisions of this chapter shall control the design, construction and arrangement of means of egress components required to provide an approved means of egress from struc­tures and portions thereof. Sections 1003 through 1029 shall apply to new construction. Section 1030 shall apply to exist­ing buildings. 
Exception: Detached one-and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a sepa­rate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the California Residential Code. 
1001.2 Minimum requirements. It shall be unlawful to alter a building or structure in a manner that will reduce the num­ber of exits or the capacity of the means of egress to less than required by this code. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 1002 
DEFINITIONS 


[B] 
1002.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chapter 2: 

[B] 
ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS. 

[B] 
AISLE. 

[B] 
AISLE ACCESSWAY. 

[B] 
ALTERNATING TREAD DEVICE. 

[B] 
AREA OF REFUGE. 

[B] 
BLEACHERS. 

[B] 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL. 

[B] 
CORRIDOR. 

[B] 
DOOR, BALANCED. 

[B] 
EGRESS COURT. 

[B] 
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENING. 

[B] 
EXIT. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS RAMP. 

[B] 
EXIT ACCESS STAIRWAY. 

[B] 
EXIT DISCHARGE. 

[B] 
EXIT DISCHARGE, LEVEL OF. 

[B] 
EXIT, HORIZONTAL. 

[B] 
EXIT PASSAGEWAY. 

[B] 
FIRE EXIT HARDWARE. 

[B] 
FIXED SEATING. 

[B] 
FLIGHT. 

[B] 
FLOOR AREA, GROSS. 

[B] 
FLOOR AREA, NET. 

[B] 
FOLDING AND TELESCOPIC SEATING. 

[B] 
GRANDSTAND. 

[B] 
GUARD. 

[B] 
HANDRAIL. 

[B] 
INTERIOR EXIT RAMP. 

[B] 
INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAY. 

[B] 
MEANS OF EGRESS. 

[B] 
MERCHANDISE PAD. 

[B] 
NOSING. 

[B] 
OCCUPANT LOAD. 

[B] 
PANIC HARDWARE. 

[B] 
PHOTOLUMINESCENT. 

[B] 
PUBLIC WAY. 

[B] 
RAMP. 

[B] 
SCISSOR STAIR. 


[B] 
SELF-LUMINOUS. 

[B] 
SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY SEATING. 

[B] 
STAIR. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, EXTERIOR. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, INTERIOR. 

[B] 
STAIRWAY, SPIRAL. 


[B) WINDER. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §4.1(a)] Definitions. 
(a) Burglar bars-Security bars located on the inside or outside ofa door or window ofa residential dwelling. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §4.1 (b)] Definitions. 
(b) Residential Dwelling -A house, apartment, motel, hotel or other type of residential dwelling subject to the State Housing Law Part. 1.5 (commencing with Section 17910), Division 13 ofHealth and Safety Code and a man­ufactured home, mobilehome, and multiunit manufactured housing as defined in Part 2 (commencing with Section 18000) ofDivision 13 ofthe Health and Safety Code. 
SECTION 1003 
GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS 


[B] 1003.1 Applicability. The general requirements specified in Sections 1003 through 1013 shall apply to all three ele­ments of the means of egress system, in addition to those spe­cific requirements for the exit access, the exit and the exit discharge detailed elsewhere in this chapter. 
Exception: Exiting requirements for Fixed Guideway Transit Systems shall be in accordance with Section 433.3 ofthe California Building Code. 
[B] 1003.2 Ceiling height. The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6 inches (2286 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Sloped ceilings in accordance with Section 1208.2 of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Ceilings of dwelling units and sleeping units within residential occupancies in accordance with Section 1208.2 of the California Building Code. 

3. 	
Allowable projections in accordance with Section 1003.3. 

4. 	
Stair headroom in accordance with Section 1009.5. 

5. 	
Door height in accordance with Section 1008.1.1. 

6. 	
Ramp headroom in accordance with Section 1010.6.2. 

7. 	
The clear height of floor levels in vehicular and pedestrian traffic areas in parking garages in accor­dance with Section 406.4.1 of the California Build­ing Code. 


8. 	Areas above and below mezzanine floors in accor­dance with Section 505.2. 
9. 	In Group I-2, I-2.1 and I-3 occupancies, the means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 8 feet (2439 mm). 

[B] 1003.3 Protruding objects. Protruding objects shall comply with the requirements of Sections 1003.3.1 through 1003.3.4. 
Exception: In Group I-2 and Group I-2.1 occupancies, protruding objects shall not extend more than 12 inches (305 mm) below the minimum ceiling height required by Section 1003.2. 
[B] 1003.3.1 Headroom. Protruding objects are permitted to extend below the minimum ceiling height required by Section 1003.2 provided a minimum headroom of 80 inches (2032 mm) shall be provided for any walking sur­face, including walks, corridors, aisles and passageways. Not more than 50 percent of the ceiling area of a means of egress shall be reduced in height by protruding objects. 
Exception: Door closers and stops shall not reduce headroom to less than 78 inches (1981 mm). 
A barrier shall be provided where the vertical clearance is less than 80 inches (2032 mm) high. The leading edge of such a barrier shall be located 27 inches (686 mm) maxi­mum above the floor. 
[B] 
1003.3.2 Post-mounted objects. A free-standing object mounted on a post or pylon shall not overhang that post or pylon more than 4 inches (102 mm) where the low­est point of the leading edge is more than 27 inches (686 mm) and less than 80 inches (2032 mm) above the walk­ing surface. Where a sign or other obstruction is mounted between posts or pylons and the clear distance between the posts or pylons is greater than 12 inches (305 mm), the lowest edge of such sign or obstruction shall be 27 inches (686 mm) maximum or 80 inches (2032 mm) minimum above the finished floor or ground. 

Exception: These requirements shall not apply to slop­ing portions of handrails between the top and bottom riser of stairs and above the ramp run. 

[B] 
1003.3.3 Horizontal projections. Structural elements, fixtures or furnishings shall not project horizontally from either side more than 4 inches (102 mm) over any walking surface between the heights of 27 inches (686 mm) and 80 inches (2032 mm) above the walking surface. 


Exception: Handrails are permitted to protrude 41/ 2 inches (114 mm) from the wall. 
1003.3.3.1 Horizontal projections for Group 1-2 occu­pancies. Structural elements, fixtures or furnishings shall not project horizontally from either side more than Ji/2 inches ( 38 mm) into the required width of an exit access corridor serving any area caring for one or more nonambulatory or bedridden persons. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Handrails are permitted to protrude 3112 inches (89 mm)from the wall. 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
2. 	
Alcohol-based hand-rub dispensers are per­mitted to protrude 4 inches. 

3. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes with a protective cover installed are permitted to protrude 4 inches. 



[B] 
1003.3.4 Clear width. Protruding objects shall not reduce the minimum clear width of accessible routes as required in Section 1104 ofthe California Building Code. 


[B] 
1003.4 Floor surface. Walking surfaces of the means of egress shall have a slip-resistant surface and be securely attached. 

[B] 
1003.5 Elevation change. Where changes in elevation of less than 12 inches (305 mm) exist in the means of egress, sloped surfaces shall be used. Where the slope is greater than one unit vertical in 20 units horizontal (5-percent slope), ramps complying with Section 1010 shall be used. Where the difference in elevation is 6 inches (152 mm) or less, the ramp shall be equipped with either handrails or floor finish materi­als that contrast with adjacent floor finish materials. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
A single step with a maximum riser height of 7 inches (178 mm) is permitted for buildings with occupancies in Groups F, H, R-2, R-3, S and U at exterior doors not required to be accessible by Chap­ter llA or liB of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
A stair with a single riser or with two risers and a tread is permitted at locations not required to be accessible by Chapter 11 of the California Building Code, provided that the risers and treads comply with Section 1009.7, the minimum depth of the tread is 13 inches (330 mm) and at least one handrail com­plying with Section 1012 is provided within 30 inches (762 mm) of the centerline of the normal path of egress travel on the stair. 

3. 	
A step is permitted in aisles serving seating that has a difference in elevation less than 12 inches (305 mm) at locations not required to be accessible by Chapter llA or llB of the California Building Code, provided that the risers and treads comply with Section 1028.11 and the aisle is provided with a handrail complying with Section 1028.13. 



Throughout a story in Group I-2 and Group I-2.1 occupan­cies, any change in elevation in portions of the means of egress that serve nonambulatory persons shall be by means of a ramp or sloped walkway. 
[B] 
1003.6 Means of egress continuity. The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall not be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component as specified in this chapter. Obstructions shall not be placed in the required width of a means of egress except projections permitted by this chapter. The required capacity of a means of egress system shall not be diminished along the path of egress travel. 

[B] 
1003.7 Elevators, escalators and moving walks. Eleva­tors, escalators and moving walks shall not be used as a com­


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
ponent of a required means of egress from any other part of the building. 
Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in accordance with Section 1007.4. 
SECTION 1004 
OCCUPANT LOAD 


[B] 1004.1 Design occupant load. In determining means of egress requirements, the number of occupants for whom means of egress facilities shall be provided shall be detemined in accordance with this section. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title I9, Division I, §3.27] Overcrowding. 
The number of occupants of any building, structure, or por­tion thereof, shall not exceed the permitted or posted capac­ity. 
[B] 
1004.1.1 Cumulative occupant loads. Where the path of egress travel includes intervening rooms, areas or spaces, cumulative occupant loads shall be determined in accordance with this section. 

[B] 
1004.1.1.1 Intervening spaces or accessory areas. Where occupants egress from one or more rooms, areas or spaces through others, the design occupant load shall be the combined occupant load of interconnected accessory or intervening spaces. Design ofegress path capacity shall be based on the cumulative portion of occupant loads of all rooms, areas or spaces to that point along the path of egress travel. 

[B] 
1004.1.1.2 Adjacent levels for mezzanines. That portion of occupant load of a mezzanine with all required egress through a room, area or space on an adjacent level shall be added to the occupant load of that room, area or space. 


I 004.1.1.3 Adjacent stories. Other than for the egress components designed for convergence in accordance with Section 1005.6, the occupant load from separate stories shall not be added. 
[B] 1004.1.2 Areas without fixed seating. The number of occupants shall be computed at the rate of one occupant per unit of area as prescribed in Table 1004.1.2. For areas without fixed seating, the occupant load shall not be less than that number determined by dividing the floor area under consideration by the occupant load factor assigned to the function of the space as set forth in Table 1 004.1.2. Where an intended function is not listed in Table 1004.1.2, the fire code official shall establish a function based on a listed function that most nearly resembles the intended function. 
Exception: Where approved by the fire code official, the actual number of occupants for whom each occu­pied space, floor or building is designed, although less than those determined by calculation, shall be permitted to be used in the determination of the design occupant load. 
TABLE 1004.1.2 

MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT 
FUNCTION OF SPACE  OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR"  
Accessory storage areas, mechanical equipment room  300 gross  
Agricultural building  300 gross  
Aircraft hangars  500 gross  
Airport terminal Baggage claim Baggage handling Concourse Waiting areas  20 gross 300 gross 100 gross 15 gross  
Assembly Gaming floors (keno, slots, etc.) Exhibit gallery and museum  11 gross 30 net  
Assembly with fixed seats  See Section 1004.4  
Assembly without fixed seats Concentrated (chairs only-not fixed) Standing space Unconcentrated (tables and chairs)  7 net 5 net 15 net  
Bowling centers, allow 5 persons for each lane including 15 feet of mnway, and for additional areas  7 net  
Business areas  100 gross  
Courtrooms -other than fixed seating areas  40net  
Day care  35 net  
Dormitories  50 gross  
Educational Classroom area Shops and other vocational room areas  20 net 50 net  
Exercise rooms  50 gross  
Group H-5 Fabrication and manufacturing areas  200 gross  
Industrial areas  100 gross  
Institutional areas Inpatient treatment areas Outpatient areas Sleeping areas  240 gross 100 gross 120 gross  
Kitchens, commercial  200 gross  
Laboratory Educational Laboratories, noneducational Laboratory suite"  50 net 100 net 200 gross  
Library Reading rooms Stack area  50 net 100 gross  
Locker rooms  50 gross  
Mall buildings -covered and open  See Section 402.8.2 of the California Building Code  
Mercantile Areas on other floors Basement and grade floor areas Storage, stock, shipping areas  60 gross 30 gross 300 gross  
Parking garages  200 gross  
Residential  200 gross  

(continued) 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
TABLE 1 004.1.2-continued MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT 

FUNCTION OF SPACE  OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR'  
Skating rinks, swimming pools  
Rink and pool  50 gross  
Decks  15 gross  
Stages and platforms  15 net  
Warehouses  500 gross  

For SI: 1 square foot =0.0929 m2. 
a. Floor area in square feet per occupant. 
[B] 1004.2 Increased occupant load. The occupant load per­mitted in any building, or portion thereof, is permitted to be increased from that number established for the occupancies in Table 1004.1.2, provided that all other requirements of the code are also met based on such modified number and the occupant load does not exceed one occupant per 7 square feet 
(0.65 m2) of occupiable floor space. Where required by the fire code official, an approved aisle, seating or fixed equip­ment diagram substantiating any increase in occupant load shall be submitted. Where required by the fire code official, such diagram shall be posted. 
[B] 1004.3 Posting of occupant load. Every room or space 
> 
I 
which is used for assembly, classroom, dining, drinking, or similar purposes having an occupant load of 50 or more 
shall have the occupant load of the room or space posted in a conspicuous place, near the main exit or exit access doorway from the room or space. Posted signs shall be of an approved legible permanent design and shall be maintained by the owner or authorized agent. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.30] Posting ofRoom Capacity. 
Any room having an occupant load of 50 or more persons where fixed seats are not installed, and which is used for assembly, classroom, dining, drinking, or similar purposes, shall have the capacity of the room posted in a conspicuous place near the main exit from the room. Posting shall be by means of a durable sign having a contrasting color from the background to which it is attached. Signs shall be of an approved type and shall be maintained in a legible manner by the owner or his authorized agent and shall indicate the num­ber of occupants permitted for each room use. No person shall deface or remove such signs except as authorized by the enforcing agency. 
[B] 1004.4 Fixed seating. For areas having fixed seats and aisles, the occupant load shall be determined by the number of fixed seats installed therein. The occupant load for areas in which fixed seating is not installed, such as waiting spaces, shall be determined in accordance with Section 1004.1.2 and added to the number of fixed seats. 
The occupant load of wheelchair spaces and the associated companion seat shall be based on one occupant for each wheelchair space and one occupant for the associated com­panion seat provided in accordance with Section 1108.2.3 of the California Building Code. 
For areas having fixed seating without dividing arms, the occupant load shall not be less than the number of seats based on one person for each 18 inches ( 457 mm) of seating length. 
The occupant load of seating booths shall be based on one person for each 24 inches (610 mm) of booth seat length mea­sured at the backrest of the seating booth. 
[B] 1004.5 Outdoor areas. Yards, patios, courts and similar outdoor areas accessible to and usable by the building occu­pants shall be provided with means of egress as required by this chapter. The occupant load of such outdoor areas shall be assigned by the fire code official in accordance with the anticipated use. Where outdoor areas are to be used by per­sons in addition to the occupants of the building, and the path of egress travel from the outdoor areas passes through the building, means of egress requirements for the building shall be based on the sum of the occupant loads of the building plus the outdoor areas. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Outdoor areas used exclusively for service of the building need only have one means of egress. 

2. 	
Both outdoor areas associated with Group R-3 and individual dwelling units of Group R-2. 



[B] 1004.6 Multiple occupancies. Where a building contains two or more occupancies, the means of egress requirements shall apply to each portion of the building based on the occu­pancy of that space. Where two or more occupancies utilize portions of the same means of egress system, those egress components shall meet the more stringent requirements of all occupancies that are served. 
SECTION 1 005 
MEANS OF EGRESS SIZING 


[B] 
1005.1 General. All portions of the means of egress sys­tem shall be sized in accordance with this section. 

Exception: Means of egress complying with Section 1028. 

[B] 
1005.2 Minimum width based on component. The min­imum width, in inches (mm), of any means of egress compo­nent shall not be less than that specified for such component elsewhere in this code or the California Building Code. 

[B] 
1005.3 Required capacity based on occupant load. The required capacity, in inches (mm), of the means of egress for any room, area, space or story shall not be less than that determined in accordance with Sections 1005.3.1 and 1005.3.2. 

[B] 
1005.3.1 Stairways. The capacity, in inches (mm), of means of egress stairways shall be calculated by multiply­ing the occupant load served by such stairway by a means of egress capacity factor of 0.3 inch (7.6 mm) per occu­


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
pant. Where stairways serve more than one story, only the occupant load of each story considered individually shall be used in calculating the required capacity of the stair­ways serving that story. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	For other than Group Hand 1-2 occupancies, the capacity, in inches (mm), of means of egress stairways shall be calculated multiplying the occupant load served by such stairway by a means of egress capacity factor of 0.2 inch (5.1 mm) per occupant in buildings equipped through­out with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and an emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2. 
2. 	
For Group H-1, H-2, H-3 and H-4 occupancies, the total width ofmeans ofegress in inches (mm) shall not be less than the total occupant load served by the means of egress multiplied by 0. 7 inches (7.62 mm) per occupant. 

3. 	
Means ofegress complying with Section 1028. 



[B) 1005.3.2 Other egress components. The capacity, in inches (mm), of means of egress components other than stairways shall be calculated by multiplying the occupant load served by such component by a means of egress capacity factor of 0.2 inch (5.1 mm) per occupant. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	For other than Group Hand 1-2 occupancies, the capacity, in inches (mm), of means of egress components other than stairways shall be calcu­lated multiplying the occupant load served by such component by a means of egress capacity factor of 0.15 inch (3.8 mm) per occupant in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and an emergency voice/alarm communication system in accor­dance with Section 907.5.2.2. 

2. 	
For Group H-1, H-2, H-3 and H-4 occupancies, the total width of means ofegress in inches (mm) shall not be less than the total occupant load served by the means of egress multiplied by 0.4 inches (5.08 mm) per occupant. 

3. 	
Means ofegress complying with Section 1028. 


[B) 1005.4 Continuity. The capacity of the means of egress required from any story of a building shall not be reduced along the path of egress travel until arrival at the public way. 
[B) 1005.5. Distribution of egress capacity. Where more than one exit, or access to more than one exit, is required, the means of egress shall be configured such that the loss of any one exit, or access to one exit, shall not reduce the available capacity to less than 50 percent of the required capacity. 
[B) 1005.6 Egress convergence. Where the means of egress from stories above and below converge at an intermediate level, the capacity of the means of egress from the point of convergence shall not be less than the sum of the required capacities for the two adjacent stories. 
[B) 1005.7 Encroachment. Encroachments into the required means of egress width shall be in accordance with the provi­sions of this section. 
[B) 1005.7.1 Doors. Doors, when fully opened, shall not reduce the required width by more than 7 inches (178 mm). Doors in any position shall not reduce the required width by more than one-half. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	In other than Group I-2 occupancies, surface­mounted latch release hardware shall be exempt from inclusion in the 7-inch maximum (178 mm) encroachment where: 
1.1. The hardware is mounted to the side of the door facing away from the adjacent wall where the door is in the open posi­tion; and 

1.2. 
The hardware is mounted not less than 34 inches (865 mm) nor more than 48 inches (1219 mm) above the finished floor. 


2. 	
The restrictions on door swing shall not apply to doors within individual dwelling units and sleep­ing units of Group R-2 occupancies and dwelling units of Group R-3 occupancies. 


[B) 1005.7.2 Other projections. Handrail projections shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 1012.8. Other nonstructural projections such as trim and similar decorative features shall be permitted to project into the required width a maximum of 11 inches (38 mm) 
/2 

on each side. 
[B) 1005.7.3 Protruding objects. Protruding objects shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 1003.3. 
SECTION 1 006 
MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION 

[B) 1006.1 Illumination required. The means of egress, including the exit discharge, shall be illuminated at all times the building space served by the means of egress is occupied. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Occupancies in Group U. 

2. 	
Aisle accessways in Group A. 

3. 	
Dwelling units and sleeping units in Groups R-1, R-2 and R-3. 

4. 
Sleeping units of Group I, R-2.1 and R-4 occupan­cies. 


[B) 1006.21llumination level. The means of egress illumina­tion level shall not be less than 1 footcandle (11 lux) at the walking surface. 
Exception: For auditoriums, theaters, concert or opera halls and similar assembly occupancies, the illumination at the walking surface is permitted to be reduced during per­
MEANS OF EGRESS 
formances to not less than 0.2 footcandle (2.15 lux), pro­vided that the required illumination is automatically restored upon activation of a premises' fire alarm system where such system is provided. 

[B] 1006.3 Emergency power for illumination. The power supply for means of egress illumination shall normally be provided by the premises' electrical supply. 
In the event of power supply failure, an emergency electri­cal system shall automatically illuminate all of the following areas: 
1. 	
Aisles and unenclosed egress stairways in rooms and spaces that require two or more means of egress. 

2. 	
Corridors, interior exit stairways and ramps and exit passageways in buildings required to have two or more exits. 

3. 	
Exterior egress components at other than their levels of exit discharge until exit discharge is accomplished for buildings required to have two or more exits. 

4. 
Interior exit discharge elements, as permitted in Section 1027.1, in buildings required to have two or more exits. 

5. 
Exterior landings as required by Section 1008.1.6 for exit discharge doorways in buildings required to have two or more exits. 



The emergency power system shall provide power for a duration of not less than 90 minutes and shall consist of stor­age batteries, unit equipment or an on-site gener~tor. The installation of the emergency power system shall be m accor­dance with Section 604. 
[B] 1006.3.1 Illumination level under emergency power. Emergency lighting facilities shall be arranged to provide initial illumination that is at least an average of 1 footcandle (11 lux) and a minimum at any point of 0.1 footcandle (1 lux) measured along the path of egress at floor level. Illumination levels shall be permitted to decline to 0.6 footcandle (6 lux) average and a minimum at any point of 0.06 footcandle (0.6 lux) at the end of the emergency lighting time duration. A maximum-to-mini­mum illumination uniformity ratio of 40 to 1 shall not be exceeded. 
SECTION 1007 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS 

[B] 1007.1 Accessible means of egress required. Accessible means of egress shall comply with this section. Accessible spaces shall be provided with not less than one accessible means of egress. Where more than one means of egress are required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall be served by 
> 	accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1. In addition to the requirements of this chapter, means of egress, which provide access to, or egress from, buildings for persons with disabili­ties, shall also comply with the requirements ofChapters 11A or 11B ofthe California Building Code, as applicable. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Accessible means of egress are not required in alter­ations to existing buildings. 

2. 	
One accessible means of egress is required from an accessible mezzanine level in accordance with Sec­tion 1007.3, 1007.4 or 1007.5. 

3. 	
In assembly areas with sloped or stepped aisles, one accessible means of egress is permitted where the common path of travel is accessible and meets the requirements in Section 1028.8. 



[B] 1007.2 Continuity and components. Each required accessible means of egress shall be continuous to a public way and shall consist of one or more of the following compo­nents: 
1. 	
Accessible routes complying with Chapter llA or 11B of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Interior exit stairways complying with Sections 1007.3 and 1022. 

3. 	
Interior exit access stairways complying with Sec­tions 1007.3 and 1009.3. 

4. 	
Exterior exit stairways complying with Sections 1007.3 and 1026 and serving levels other than the level of exit discharge. 

5. 
Elevators complying with Section 1007.4. 

6. 	
Platform lifts complying with Section 1007.5. 

7. 	
Horizontal exits complying with Section 1025. 

8. 	
Ramps complying with Section 1010. 

9. 	
Areas of refuge complying with Section 1007.6. 

10. 	
Exterior area for assisted rescue complying with Sec­tion 1007.7. 


[B] 1007.2.1 Elevators required. In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required acces­sible means of egress shall be an elevator complying with Section 1007.4. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
In buildings equipped throughout with an auto­matic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the elevator shall not be required on floors provided with a horizontal exit and located at or above the levels of exit discharge. 

2. 	
In buildings equipped throughout with an auto­matic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the elevator shall not be required on floors provided with a ramp conforming to the provisions of Section 1010. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
• 
> 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
[B] 1007.3 Stairways. In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, a stairway between stories shall have a clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) minimum between handrails, and shall either incorporate an area of ref­uge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Sec­tion 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exit access stairways that connect levels in the same story are not permitted as part of an accessible means of egress. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	The clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails is not required in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1 or 
903.3.1.2. 

2. 	
Areas of refuge are not required at stairways in buildings equipped throughout by an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 

3. 	
The clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails is not required for stairways accessed from a horizontal exit. 

4. 	
Areas of refuge are not required at stairways serving open parking garages. 

5. 	
Areas of refuge are not required for smoke protected seating areas complying with Section 1028.6.2. 

6. 	
The areas of refuge are not required in Group R-2 occupancies. 


[B] 1007.4 Elevators. In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of 
California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 6, Elevator Safety Orders. Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Section 604.2.5 of this code and Section 3003 of the California Building Code. The eleva­tor shall be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in open parking garages. 

2. 	
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 

3. 	
Elevators not required to be located in a shaft in accordance with Section 712 of the California Building Code are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit. 

4. 	
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit for smoke-protected seating areas complying with Section 1028.6.2. 


[B] 1007.5 Platform lifts. Platform (wheelchair) lifts shall not serve as part of an accessible means of egress, except where allowed as part of a required accessible route in Chap­ter llA or liB of the California Building Code. Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Section 604.2.6 for platform lifts permitted to serve as part of a means of egress. 
[B] 
1007.5.1 Openness. Platform lifts on an accessible means of egress shall not be installed in a fully enclosed hoistway. 

[B] 
1007.6 Areas of refuge. Every required area of refuge shall be accessible from the space it serves by an accessible means of egress. The maximum travel distance from any accessible space to an area of refuge shall not exceed the travel distance permitted for the occupancy in accordance with Section 1016.1. Every required area of refuge shall have direct access to a stairway complying with Section 1007.3 or an elevator complying with Section 1007.4. Where an eleva­tor lobby is used as an area of refuge, the shaft and lobby shall comply with Section 1022.10 for smokeproof enclo­sures except where the elevators are in an area of refuge formed by a horizontal exit or smoke barrier. 

[B] 
1007.6.1 Size. Each area of refuge shall be sized to 


•

accommodate two wheelchair spaces that are not less than < 30 inches by 48 inches (762 mm by 1219 mm) The total number ofsuch 30-inch by 48-inch (762 mm by 1219 mm) spaces per story shall be not less than one for every 200 persons of calculated occupant load served by the area of refuge. Such wheelchair spaces shall not reduce the required means of egress width. Access to any of the < required wheelchair spaces in an area of refuge shall not be obstructed by more than one adjoining wheelchair space. 
Exception: The enforcing agency may reduce the size of each required area of refuge to accommodate one wheelchair space that is not less than 30 inches by 48 inches on floors where the occupant load is less than 
200. 
[B] 
1007.6.2 Separation. Each area of refuge shall be sep­arated from the remainder of the story by a smoke barrier complying with Section 709 of the California Building Code or a horizontal exit complying with Section 1025. Each area of refuge shall be designed to minimize the intrusion of smoke. 

Exception: Areas of refuge located within an enclosure for exit access stairways or interior exit stairways. 

[B] 
1007.6.3 Two-way communication. Areas of refuge shall be provided with a two-way communication system complying with Sections 1007.8.1 and 1007.8.2. 

[B] 
1007.7 Exterior area for assisted rescue. Exterior areas for assisted rescue shall be accessed by an accessible route from the area served. Exterior areas for assisted rescue shall be permitted in accordance with Section 1007.7.1 or 1007.7.2. 

[B] 
1007.7.1 Level of exit discharge. Where the exit dis­charge does not include an accessible route from an exit located on a level of exit discharge to a public way, an exterior area of assisted rescue shall be provided on the 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
exterior landing in accordance with Sections 1007.7.3 through 1007.7.6. 
[B] 
1007.7.2 Outdoor facilities. Where exit access from the area serving outdoor facilities is essentially open to the outside, an exterior area of assisted rescue is permitted as an alternative to an area of refuge. Every required exterior area of assisted rescue shall have direct access to an inte­rior stairway, exterior stairway, or elevator serving as an accessible means of egress component. The exterior area of assisted rescue shall comply with Sections 1007.7.3 through 1007.7.6, and shall be provided with a two-way communication system complying with Sections 1007.8.1 and 1007.8.2. 

[B] 
1007.7.3 Size. Each exterior area for assisted rescue shall be sized to accommodate wheelchair spaces in accor­dance with Section 1007.6.1. 

[B] 
1007.7.4 Separation. Exterior walls separating the exterior area of assisted rescue from the interior of the building shall have a minimum fire-resistance rating of 1 hour, rated for exposure to fire from the inside. The fire­resistance-rated exterior wall construction shall extend horizontally 10 feet (3048 mm) beyond the landing on either side of the landing or equivalent fire-resistance­rated construction is permitted to extend out perpendicular to the exterior wall4 feet (1219 mm) minimum on the side of the landing. The fire-resistance-rated construction shall extend vertically from the ground to a point 10 feet (3048 mm) above the floor level of the area for assisted rescue or to the roof line, whichever is lower. Openings within such fire-resistance-rated exterior walls shall be protected in accordance with Section 716 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 
1007.7.5 Openness. The exterior area for assisted res­cue shall be open to the outside air. The sides other than the separation walls shall be at least 50 percent open, and the open area shall be distributed so as to minimize the accumulation of smoke or toxic gases. 

[B] 
1007.7.6 Stairway. Stairways that are part of the means of egress for the exterior area for assisted rescue shall provide a clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails. 


Exception: The clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails is not required at stairways serving buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprin­kler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 

[B] 1007.8 Two-way communication. A two-way communi­cation system shall be provided at the elevator landing on each accessible floor that is one or more stories above or below the story of exit discharge complying with Sections 1007.8.1 and 1007.8.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Two-way communication systems are not required at the elevator landing where the two-way commu­nication system is provided within areas of refuge in accordance with Section 1007.6.3. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
2. 	Two-way communication systems are not required on floors provided with ramps conforming to the provisions of Section 1010. 

[B] 1007.8.1 System requirements. Two-way communi­cation systems shall provide communication between each required location and a central control point location 1 1 approved by the fire department. Where the central control point is not constantly attended, a two-way communica­tion system shall have a timed automatic telephone dial-out capability to an approved monitoring location. The 1I< two-way communication system shall include both audible and visible signals. 
1007.8.2 Directions. Directions for the use of the two-way communication system, instructions for summoning assis­tance via the two-way communication system and written identification of the specific story, floor location, and 
II 

building address or other building identifier shall be posted adjacent to the two-way communication system. 
[B] 1007.9 Signage. Signage indicating special accessibility provisions shall be provided as shown: 
1. 	
Each door providing access to an area of refuge from an adjacent floor area shall be identified by a sign stating: AREA OF REFUGE. 


2. 	
Each door providing access to an exterior area for assisted rescue shall be identified by a sign stating: EXTERIOR AREA FOR ASSISTED RESCUE. 


Signage shall comply with Chapter 11A or llB of the Cal­ifornia Building Code requirements for visual characters and include the International Symbol of Accessibility. Where exit sign illumination is required by Section 1011.3, the signs shall be illuminated. Additionally, raised character and Braille signage complying with Chapter 11A or llB of the California Building Code shall be located at each door to an area of refuge and exterior area for assisted rescue in accor­dance with Section 1011.4. 
[B] 1007.10 Directional signage. Direction signage indicat­ing the location of the other means of egress and which are accessible means of egress shall be provided at the following: 
1. 	
At exits serving a required accessible space but not pro­viding an approved accessible means of egress. 

2. 	
At elevator landings. 

3. 	
Within areas of refuge. 


[B] 1007.11 Instructions. In areas of refuge and exterior areas for assisted rescue, instructions on the use of the area under emergency conditions shall be posted. The instructions shall include all of the following: 
1. 	
Persons able to use the exit stairway do so as soon as possible, unless they are assisting others. 

2. 	
Information on planned availability of assistance in the use of stairs or supervised operation of elevators and how to summon such assistance. 

3. 	
Directions for use of the two-way communications sys­tem where provided. 


1007.12 Alarms/emergency warning systems/accessibility. If II emergency warning systems are required, they shall activate 
201 

a means of warning the hearing impaired. Emergency warn­ing systems as part ofthe fire-alarm system shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 72 as amended in Chapter45. 
SECTION 1008 
DOORS, GATES AND TURNSTILES 


[B] 1008.1 Doors. Means of egress doors shall meet the requirements of this section. Doors serving a means of egress system shall meet the requirements of this section and Sec­tion 1020.2. Doors provided for egress purposes in numbers greater than required by this code shall meet the requirements of this section. 
Means of egress doors shall be readily distinguishable from the adjacent construction and finishes such that the doors are easily recognizable as doors. Mirrors or similar reflecting materials shall not be used on means of egress doors. Means of egress doors shall not be concealed by cur­tains, drapes, decorations or similar materials. 
[B] 1008.1.1 Size of doors. The minimum width of each door opening shall be sufficient for the occupant load thereof and shall provide a clear width of 32 inches (813 mm). Clear openings of doorways with swinging doors shall be measured between the face of the door and the stop, with the door open 90 degrees (1.57 rad). Where this section requires a minimum clear width of 32 inches (813 mm) and a door opening includes two door leaves without a mullion, one leaf shall provide a clear opening width of 32 inches (813 mm). The maximum width of a swinging door leaf shall be 48 inches (1219 mm) nominal. Means of egress doors in a Group I-2 occupancy used for the move­ment of beds and litter patients shall provide a clear width not less than 41 1 inches (1054 mm). The height of door
/2 

openings shall not be less than 44 inches (1054 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The minimum and maximum width shall not apply to door openings that are not part of the required means of egress in Group R-2 and R-3 occupancies. 

2. 	
Door openings to resident sleeping units in Group I-3 occupancies shall have a clear width of not less than 28 inches (711 mm). 

3. 	
Door openings to storage closets less than 10 square feet (0.93 m2) in area shall not be limited by the minimum width. 


4. 	
Width of door leaves in revolving doors that comply with Section 1008.1.4.1 shall not be lim­ited. 

5. 	
Door openings within a dwelling unit or sleeping unit shall not be less than 78 inches (1981 mm) in height. 

6. 	
Exterior door openings in dwelling units and sleeping units, other than the required exit door, 


shall not be less than 76 inches (1930 mm) in height. 

7. 	In other than Group R-1 occupancies, the mini­mum widths shall not apply to interior egress doors within a dwelling unit or sleeping unit that is not required to be adaptable or accessible as specified in Chapter 11A or liB. 
[B] 1008.1.1.1 Projections into clear width. There shall not be projections into the required clear width lower than 34 inches (864 mm) above the floor or ground. Projections into the clear opening width between 34 inches (864 mm) and 80 inches (2032 mm) above the floor or ground shall not exceed 4 inches (102 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Door closers and door stops shall be permitted to be 78 inches (1980 mm) minimum above the floor. 
2. 	In a Group 1-2 occupancy, there shall be no pro­jections into the clear width ofdoors used for the movement ofbeds and litter patients in the means ofegress. 
[B] 1008.1.2 Door swing. Egress doors shall be of the piv­oted or side-hinged swinging type. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Private garages, office areas, factory and stor­age areas with an occupant load of 10 or less. 

2. 	
Group I-3 occupancies used as a place of deten­tion. 

3. 	
Critical or intensive care patient rooms within suites of health care facilities. 

4. 	
Doors within or serving a single dwelling unit in Groups R-2 and R-3. 

5. 	
In other than Group H occupancies, revolving doors complying with Section 1008.1.4.1. 

6. 	
In other than Group H occupancies, horizontal sliding doors complying with Section 1008.1.4.3 are permitted in a means of egress. 

7. 	
Power-operated doors in accordance with Sec­tion 1008.1.4.2. 

8. 	
Doors serving a bathroom within an individual sleeping unit in Group R-1. 

9. 	
In other than Group H occupancies, manually operated horizontal sliding doors are permitted in a means of egress from spaces with an occu­pant load of 10 or less. 


10. 	In Group I-2 and 1-2.1 occupancies, exit doors serving an occupant load of 10 or more may be ofthe pivoted or balanced type. 
Doors shall swing in the direction of egress travel where serving a room or area containing an occupant load of 50 or more persons or a Group H occupancy. For Group L 
occupancies, see Section 443.6.3 of the California Build­ing Code. 
In a Group 1-2 occupancy, all required exterior egress 
doors shall open in the direction of egress, regardless of 
the occupant load served. 
[B] 
1008.1.3 Door opening force. The force for pushing or pulling open interior swinging egress doors, other than fire doors, shall not exceed 5 pounds (22 N). For other swinging doors, as well as sliding and folding doors, the door latch shall release when subjected to a 15-pound (67 N) force. The door shall be set in motion when subjected to a 30-pound (133 N) force. The door shall swing to a full-open position when subjected to a 15-pound (67 N) force. 

[B] 
1008.1.3.1 Location of applied forces. Forces shall be applied to the latch side of the door. 

[B] 
1008.1.4 Special doors. Special doors and security grilles shall comply with the requirements of Sections 1008.1.4.1 through 1008.1.4.4. 

[B] 
1008.1.4.1 Revolving doors. Revolving doors shall comply with the following: 


1. 	
Each revolving door shall be capable of collaps­ing into a bookfold position with parallel egress paths providing an aggregate width of 36 inches (914 mm). 

2. 	
A revolving door shall not be located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the foot of or top of stairs or escalators. A dispersal area shall be provided between the stairs or escalators and the revolving doors. 

3. 
The revolutions per minute (rpm) for a revolving door shall not exceed those shown in Table 1008.1.4.1. 

4. 
Each revolving door 	shall have a side-hinged swinging door which complies with Section 1008.1 in the same wall and within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the revolving door. 

5. 	
Revolving doors shall not be part of an accessible route required by Section 1007 and Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code. 


TABLE 1008.1.4.1 REVOLVING DOOR SPEEDS MEANS OF EGRESS 

INSIDE DIAMETER (feet-inches)  POWER-DRIVEN-TYPE SPEED CONTROL (rpm)  MANUAL-TYPE SPEED CONTROL (rpm)  
6-6  11  12  
7-0  10  11  
7-6  9  11  
8-0  9  10  
8-6  8  9  
9-0  8  9  
9-6  7  8  
10-0  7  8  

[B] 1008.1.4.1.1 Egress component. A revolving door used as a component of a means of egress shall comply with Section 1008.1.4.1 and the following three conditions: 
1. 	
Revolving doors shall not be given credit for more than 50 percent of the required egress capacity. 

2. 	
Each revolving door shall be credited with no more than a 50-person capacity. 

3. 	
Each revolving door shall be capable of being collapsed when a force of not more than 130 pounds (578 N) is applied within 3 inches (76 mm) of the outer edge of a wing. 


[B] 1008.1.4.1.2 Other than egress component. A revolving door used as other than a component of a means of egress shall comply with Section 1 008.1.4.1. The collapsing force of a revolving door not used as a component of a means of egress shall not be more than 180 pounds (801 N). 
Exception: A collapsing force in excess of 180 pounds (80 1 N) is permitted if the collapsing force is reduced to not more than 130 pounds (578 N) when at least one of the following condi­tions is satisfied: 
1. 	
There is a power failure or power is removed to the device holding the door wings in position. 

2. 	
There is an actuation of the automatic sprinkler system where such system is pro­vided. 

3. 	
There is an actuation of a smoke detection system which is installed in accordance with Section 907 to provide coverage in areas within the building which are within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of the revolving doors. 

4. 	
There is an actuation of a manual control switch, in an approved location and clearly defined, which reduces the holding force to below the 130-pound (578 N) force level. 


[B] 1008.1.4.2 Power-operated doors. Where means of egress doors are operated by power, such as doors with a photoelectric-actuated mechanism to open the door upon the approach of a person, or doors with power-assisted manual operation, the design shall be such that in the event of power failure, the door is capa­ble of being opened manually to permit means of egress travel or closed where necessary to safeguard means of egress. The forces required to open these doors manu­ally shall not exceed those specified in Section 1008.1.3, except that the force to set the door in motion shall not exceed 50 pounds (220 N). The door shall be capable of swinging from any position to the full width of the opening in which such door is installed when a force is applied to the door on the side from which egress is made. Full-power-operated doors shall com-

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
* 

ply with BHMA Al56.10. Power-assisted and low­energy doors shall comply with BHMA Al56.19. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Occupancies in Group I-3. 

2. 	
Horizontal sliding doors complying with Sec­tion 1008.1.4.3. 

3. 	
For a biparting door in the emergency break­out mode, a door leaf located within a multi­ple-leaf opening shall be exempt from the minimum 32-inch (813 mm) single-leaf requirement of Section 1008.1.1, provided a minimum 32-inch (813 mm) clear opening is provided when the two biparting leaves meet­ing in the center are broken out. 



[B] 1008.1.4.3 Horizontal sliding doors. In other than Group H occupancies, horizontal sliding doors permit­ted to be a component of a means of egress in accor­dance with Exception 6 to Section 1008.1.2 shall comply with all of the following criteria: 
1. 	
The doors shall be power operated and shall be capable of being operated manually in the event of power failure. 

2. 	
The doors shall be openable by a simple method from both sides without special knowledge or effort. 

3. 	
The force required to operate the door shall not exceed 30 pounds (133 N) to set the door in motion and 15 pounds (67 N) to close the door or open it to the minimum required width. 


4. 
The door shall be openable with a force not to exceed 15 pounds (67 N) when a force of 250 pounds (llOO N) is applied perpendicular to the door adjacent to the operating device. 

5. 	
The door assembly shall comply with the applica­ble fire protection rating and, where rated, shall be self-closing or automatic closing by smoke detection in accordance with Section 716.5.9.3 of the California Building Code, shall be installed in accordance with NFP A 80 and shall comply with Section 716 of the California Building Code. 

6. 	
The door assembly shall have an integrated standby power supply. 

7. 	
The door assembly power supply shall be electri­cally supervised. 

8. 	
The door shall open to the minimum required width within 10 seconds after activation of the operating device. 


[B] 1008.1.4.4 Security grilles. In Groups B, F, M and S, horizontal sliding or vertical security grilles are per­mitted at the main exit and shall be openable from the inside without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort during periods that the space is occupied. The grilles shall remain secured in the full-open position during the period of occupancy by the general public. Where two or more means of egress are required, not more than one-half of the exits or exit access doorways shall be equipped with horizontal sliding or vertical security grilles. 
1008.1.4.4.1 Special provisions school classrooms. I I School classrooms constructed after January 1, 1990, not equipped with automatic sprinkler systems, which have metal grilles or bars on all their windows and do not have at least two exit doors within 3 feet (914 mm) of each end of the classroom opening to the exterior ofthe building or to a common hallway used for evac­uation purposes, shall have an inside release for the grilles or bars on at least one window farthest from the exit doors. The window or windows with the inside release shall be clearly marked as emergency exits. 
[B] 1008.1.5 Floor elevation. There shall be a floor or landing on each side of a door. Such floor or landing shall be at the same elevation on each side of the door. Landings shall be level except for exterior landings, which are per­mitted to have a slope not to exceed 0.25 unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (2-percent slope). 
Exceptions: 
1. Doors serving individual dwelling units in Groups R-2 and R-3 where the following apply: 
1.1. A door is permitted to open at the top step of an interior flight of stairs, provided the door does not swing over the top step. 

1.2. 
Screen doors and storm doors are permit­ted to swing over stairs or landings. 


2. 	
Exterior doors as provided for in Section 1003.5, Exception 1, and Section 1020.2, which are not on an accessible route. 

3. 	
In Group R-3 occupancies not required to be Accessible units, Type A units or Type B units, the landing at an exterior doorway shall not be more than 73/ 4 inches (197 mm) below the top of the threshold, provided the door, other than an exterior storm or screen door, does not swing over the landing. 

4. 
Variations in elevation due to differences in fin­ish materials, but not more than 1inch (12.7 


/2 
mm). 

5. 	Exterior decks, patios or balconies that are part of Type B dwelling units, have impervious surfaces and that are not more than 4 inches (102 mm) below the finished floor level of the adjacent inte­rior space of the dwelling unit. 
[B] 1008.1.6 Landings at doors. Landings shall have a width not less than the width of the stairway or the door, whichever is greater. Doors in the fully open position shall not reduce a required dimension by more than 7 inches (178 mm). When a landing serves an occupant load of 50 or more, doors in any position shall not reduce the landing to less than one-half its required width. Landings shall have a length measured in the direction of travel of not less than 44 inches (1118 mm). 
Exception: Landing length in the direction of travel in Groups R-3 and U and within individual units of Group R-2 need not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). 
[B] 1008.1.7 Thresholds. Thresholds at doorways shall not exceed 3inch (19.1 mm) in height for sliding doors 
/4 
serving dwelling units or 1/ 2 inch (12.7 mm) for other doors. Raised thresholds and floor level changes greater than 1inch (6.4 mm) at doorways shall be beveled with a 
/4 
slope not greater than one unit vertical in two units hori­zontal (50-percent slope). 
Exception: In occupancy Group R-2 or R-3, threshold heights for sliding and side-hinged exterior doors shall be permitted to be up to 73inches (197 mm) in height 
/4 
if all of the following apply: 
1. 	
The door is not part of the required means of egress. 

2. 	
The door is not part of an accessible route as required by Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code. 

3. 	
The door is not part of an Accessible unit or adaptable unit. 


[B] 1008.1.8 Door arrangement. Space between two doors in a series shall be 48 inches (1219 mm) minimum plus the width of a door swinging into the space. Doors in a series shall swing either in the same direction or away from the space between the doors. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The minimum distance between horizontal slid­ing power-operated doors in a series shall be 48 inches (1219 mm). 

2. 	
Storm and screen doors serving individual dwell­ing units in Groups R-2 and R-3 need not be spaced 48 inches (1219 mm) from the other door. 

3. 	
Doors within individual dwelling units in Groups R-2 and R-3. 


[B] 
1008.1.9 Door operations. Except as specifically per­mitted by this section egress doors shall be readily open­able from the egress side without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort. 

[B] 
1008.1.9.1 Hardware. Door handles, pulls, latches, locks and other operating devices on doors required to be accessible by Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code shall not require tight grasping, tight pinching or twisting of the wrist to operate. 


These design requirements for door handles, pulls, latches, locks and other operating devices, intended for use on required means of egress doors in other than Group R and M occupancies with an occupant load of 10 or less, shall comply with California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 24, Part 12, SFM Standard 12-10-2. 
[B] 1008.1.9.2 Hardware height. Door handles, pulls, latches, locks and other operating devices shall be installed 34 inches (864 mm) minimum and 48 inches 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
(1219 mm) maximum above the finished floor. Locks 
used only for security purposes and not used for normal 
operation are permitted at any height. 
Exception: Access doors or gates in banier walls and fences protecting pools, spas and hot tubs shall be permitted to have operable parts of the release of latch on self-latching devices at 54 inches (1370 mm) maximum above the finished floor or ground, provided the self-latching devices are not also self­locking devices operated by means of a key, elec­tronic opener or integral combination lock. 
[B] 1008.1.9.3 Locks and latches. Locks and latches shall be permitted to prevent operation of doors where any of the following exists: 
1. 	
Places of detention or restraint. 

2. 	
In buildings in occupancy Group A having an occupant load of 300 or less, Groups B, F, M and S, and in places of religious worship, the main exterior door or doors are permitted to be equipped with key-operated locking devices from the egress side provided: 


2.1. The locking device is readily distinguish­able as locked; 
2.2. A readily visible durable sign is posted on the egress side on or adjacent to the door stating: THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED WHEN BUILDING IS OCCUPIED. The sign shall be in letters l-inch (25 mm) high on a contrasting background; and 
2.3. 
The 	use of the key-operated locking device is revokable by the fire code offi­cial for due cause. 

3. 	
Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush bolts shall be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the auto­matic flush bolts has no doorknob or surface­mounted hardware. 

4. 
Doors from individual dwelling or sleeping units of Group R occupancies having an occupant load of 10 or less are permitted to be equipped with a night latch, dead bolt or security chain, provided such devices are openable from the inside with­out the use of a key or tool. 

5. 	
Fire doors after the minimum elevated tempera­ture has disabled the unlatching mechanism in accordance with listed fire door test procedures. 


[B] 1008.1.9.4 Bolt locks. Manually operated flush bolts or surface bolts are not permitted. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
On doors not required for egress in individual dwelling units or sleeping units. 

2. 	
Where a pair of doors serves a storage or equipment room, manually operated edge-or 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
surface-mounted bolts are permitted on the inactive leaf. 
3. 	
Where a pair of doors serves an occupant load of less than 50 persons in a Group B, For S occupancy, manually operated edge-or sur­face-mounted bolts are permitted on the inac­tive leaf. The inactive leaf shall contain no doorknobs, panic bars or similar operating hardware. 

4. 	
Where a pair of doors serves a Group B, For S occupancy, manually operated edge-or sur­face-mounted bolts are permitted on the inac­tive leaf provided such inactive leaf is not needed to meet egress width requirements and the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The inactive leaf shall con­tain no doorknobs, panic bars or similar oper­ating hardware. 

5. 	
Where a pair of doors serves patient care rooms in Group I-2 occupancies, self-latching edge-or surface-mounted bolts are permitted on the inactive leaf provided that the inactive leaf is not needed to meet egress width requirements and the inactive leaf contains no doorknobs, panic bars or similar operating hardware. 



[B] 1008.1.9.5 Unlatching. The unlatching of any door or leaf shall not require more than one operation. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Places of detention or restraint. 

2. 	
Where manually operated bolt locks are per­mitted by Section 1008.1.9.4. 

3. 	
Doors with automatic flush bolts as permitted by Section 1008.1.9.3, Exception 3. 

4. 	
Doors from individual dwelling units and sleeping units of Group R occupancies as per­mitted by Section 1008.1.9.3, Exception 4. 



[B] 1008.1.9.5.1 Closet and bathroom doors in Group R-4 occupancies. In Group R-4 occupan­cies, closet doors that latch in the closed position shall be openable from inside the closet, and bath­room doors that latch in the closed position shall be capable of being unlocked from the ingress side. 
> [B] 1008.1.9.6 Reserved. 
[B] 1008.1.9.7 Delayed egress locks. Approved, listed, delayed egress locks shall be permitted to be installed on doors serving any occupancy except Group A, E, H and L occupancies. 
Exception: Group A occupancy courtrooms are per­mitted to utilize delayed egress locks. 
Buildings with delayed egress locks shall be 
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler sys­tem in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and an > approved automatic smoke detection system installed 
in accordance with Section 907, provided that the doors unlock in accordance with Items 1 through 9 below. A building occupant shall not be required to pass through more than one door equipped with a delayed egress lock before entering an exit. Delayed egress devices shall conform to all ofthe following:. 
1. 	
The doors unlock upon actuation of the automatic sprinkler system or automatic fire detection sys­tem. 

2. 	
The doors unlock upon loss of electrical power to any one ofthe following: 


2.1. 	The egress-control device itself. 
2.2. 	The smoke detection system. 
2.3. Means of egress illumination as required by Section 1006. 

3. 	
The door locks shall have the capability of being unlocked by a signal from a switch located in an < approved location. 

4. 	
The initiation of an irreversible process which will release the latch in not more than 15 seconds when a force of not more than 15 pounds (67 N) is applied for 1 second to the release device. Initi­ation of the irreversible process shall activate an audible signal in the vicinity of the door. Once the door lock has been released by the application of force to the releasing device, relocking shall be by manual means only. The time delay estab­lished for each egress-control device shall not be field adjustable. For applications listed in Sec­tion 1.9.1 regulated by the Division of the State Architect-Access Compliance, see Chapter II B ofthe California Building Code. I I 


Exception: In facilities housing Alzheimer's or dementia clients, a delay of not more than 30 seconds is permitted. 

5. 	A sign shall be provided on the door located above and within 12 inches (305 mm) of the release device reading: "KEEP PUSHING. THIS DOOR WILL OPEN IN I5 [30] SECONDS. < ALARM WILL SOUND." Sign lettering shall be at least 1 inch (25 mm) in height and shall have a stroke ofnot less than 1inch (3.2 mm). 
/8 
5.I. A 	tactile sign shall also be provided in Braille and raised characters, which com­plies with Chapter llB of the California Building Code. 

6. 	Emergency lighting shall be provided at the door. 
7. 	
Actuation of the panic bar or other door-latching hardware shall activate an audible signal at the door. 

8. 	
The unlatching shall not require more than one operation. 

9. 	
Regardless of the means of deactivation, relock­ing of the egress-control device shall be by man­ual means only at the door. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[B] 1008.1.9.8 Access-controlled egress doors. The 

** 
entrance doors in a means of egress in buildings with an occupancy in Groups A, B, 1-2, M, R-1 or R-2, and entrance doors to tenant spaces in occupancies in Groups A, B, 1-2, M, R-1 or R-2, are permitted to be equipped with an approved entrance and egress access control system, listed in accordance with UL 294, which shall be installed in accordance with all of the following criteria: 
1. 	
A sensor shall be provided on the egress side arranged to detect an occupant approaching the doors. The doors shall be arranged to unlock by a signal from or loss of power to the sensor. 

2. 	
Loss of power to that part of the access control system which locks the doors shall automatically unlock the doors. 

3. 
The doors shall be arranged 	to unlock from a manual unlocking device located 40 inches to 48 inches (1016 mm to 1219 mm) vertically above the floor and within 5 feet (1524 mm) of the secured doors. Ready access shall be provided to the manual unlocking device and the device shall be clearly identified by a sign that reads "PUSH TO EXIT." When operated, the manual unlock­ing device shall result in direct interruption of power to the lock-independent of the access control system electronics-and the doors shall remain unlocked for a minimum of 30 seconds. 

4. 
Activation 	of the building fire alarm system, if provided, shall automatically unlock the doors, and the doors shall remain unlocked until the fire alarm system has been reset. 

5. 
Activation of the building automatic sprinkler or fire detection system, if provided, shall automati­cally unlock the doors. The doors shall remain unlocked until the fire alarm system has been reset. 

6. 	
Entrance doors in buildings with an occupancy in Group A, B, /-2 or M shall not be secured from the egress side during periods that the building is open to the general public. 


[B] 1008.1.9.9 Electromagnetically locked egress doors. Doors in the means of egress in buildings with an occupancy in Group A, B, E, M, R-1 or R-2, and doors to tenant spaces in Group A, B, E, M, R-1 or R-2, shall be permitted to be electromagnetically locked if equipped with listed hardware that incorporates a built­in switch and meet the requirements below: 
1. 	
The listed hardware that is affixed to the door leaf has an obvious method of operation that is readily operated under all lighting conditions. 

2. 	
The listed hardware is capable of being operated with one hand. 

3. 
Operation 	of the listed hardware directly inter­rupts the power to the electromagnetic lock and unlocks the door immediately. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE MEANS OF EGRESS 
4. 	
Loss of power to the listed hardware automati­cally unlocks the door. 

5. 	
Where panic or fire exit hardware is required by Section 1008.1.10, operation of the listed panic or fire exit hardware also releases the electromag­netic lock. 


[B] 
1008.1.9.10 Reserved. 	< 

[B] 
1008.1.9.11 Stairway doors. Interior stairway means of egress doors shall be openable from both sides without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Stairway discharge doors shall be openable from the egress side and shall only be locked from the opposite side. 

2. 	
This section shall not apply to doors arranged in accordance with Section 403.5.3 of the Cal­ifornia Building Code. 

3. 	
In stairways serving not more than four sto­ries, doors are permitted to be locked from the side opposite the egress side, provided they are openable from the egress side and capable of being unlocked simultaneously without unlatching upon a signal from the fire com­mand center, if present, or a signal by emer­gency personnel from a single location inside the main entrance to the building. 

4. 
Stairway exit doors shall be openable from the egress side and shall only be locked from the opposite side in Group B, F, M and S occu­pancies where the only interior access to the tenant space is from a single exit stair where permitted in Section 1021.2. 

5. 
Stairway exit doors shall be openable from the egress side and shall only be locked from the opposite side in Group R-2 occupancies where the only interior access to the dwelling unit is from a single exit stair where permitted in Section 1021.2. 


1008.1.9.12 Access-controlled elevator lobby doors in high-rise office buildings. For elevator lobbies in high-rise office buildings where the occupants ofthe floor are not required to travel through the elevator lobby to reach an exit, when approved by the fire chief, the doors separating the elevator lobby from the adjacent occupied tenant space that also serve as the entrance doors to the tenant space shall be permitted to be equipped with an approved entrance 
and egress access control provided all ofthe follow­ing requirements are met: 
1. 	
The building is provided throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

2. 	
A smoke detector is installed on the ceiling on the tenant side of the elevator lobby doors along the center line of the door opening, not 



less than I foot and not more than 5 feet from the door opening, and is connected to the fire alarm system. 
3. 	
A remote master switch capable of unlocking the elevator lobby doors shall be provided in the fire command center for use by the fire department. 

4. 	
Locks for the elevator lobby shall be UL and California State Fire Marshal listed fail-safe type locking mechanisms. The locking device shall automatically release on activation of any fire alarm device on the floor of alarm (waterflow, smoke detector, manual pull sta­tions, etc.). All locking devices shall unlock, but not unlatch, upon activation. 

5. 	
A two-way voice communication system, uti­



II 
lizing dedicated lines, shall be provided from each locked elevator lobby to the 24-hour staffed location on site, annunciated as to location. Operating instructions shall be posted above each two-way communication device. 
Exception: When approved by the fire chief, a two-way voice communication system to an off-site facility may be permitted where means to remotely unlock the access controlled doors from the off-site facility are provided. 
6. 	An approved momentary mushroom-shaped palm button connected to the doors and installed adjacent to each locked elevator lobby door shall be provided to release the 

II 
II 
door locks when operated by an individual in the elevator lobby. The locks shall be reset manually at the door. Mount palm button so that the center line is 48 inches above the fin­ished floor. 
Provide a sign stating: 
"IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, PUSH PALM BUTTON, 
DOOR WILL UNLOCK AND SECURITY ALARM WILL SOUND." 
The sign lettering shall be 314-inch high letters 
by 	118-inch width stroke on a contrasting back­
ground. 
7. 	Loss of power to that part of the access con­

II 
trol system which locks the doors shall auto­matically unlock the doors. 

[B] 1008.1.10 Panic and fire exit hardware. Doors serv­ing a Group H occupancy and doors serving rooms or spaces with an occupant load of 50 or more in a Group A occupancy, assembly area not classified as an assembly occupancy, E, I-2 or I-2.I occupancies shall not be pro­vided with a latch or lock unless it is panic hardware or fire exit hardware. For Group L occupancies, see Section 
443.6.3 ofthe California Building Code.
II 
208 
Exception: A main exit of a Group A occupancy in compliance with Section 1008.1.9.3, Item 2. 
Electrical rooms with equipment rated 1,200 amperes or more and over 6 feet (1829 mm) wide that contain over­current devices, switching devices or control devices with exit or exit access doors shall be equipped with panic hardware or fire exit hardware. The doors shall swing in the direction of egress travel. 
[B] 1008.1.10.1 Installation. Where panic or fire exit hardware is installed, it shall comply with the follow­ing: 
1. 	
Panic hardware shall be listed in accordance with UL 305; 

2. 	
Fire exit hardware shall be listed in accordance with UL IOC and UL 305; 

3. 	
The actuating portion of the releasing device shall extend at least one-half of the door leaf width; and 

4. 	
The maximum unlatching force shall not exceed 15 pounds (67 N). 


[B] 1008.1.10.2 Balanced doors. If balanced doors are used and panic hardware is required, the panic hard­ware shall be the push-pad type and the pad shall not extend more than one-half the width of the door mea­sured from the latch side. 
1008.1.11 Group E lockable doors from the inside. New buildings that are included in public schools (kindergarten through 12'h grade) state-funded projects and are receiv­ing state funding pursuant to Leroy F. Green, School Facilities Act of I998, California Education Code Sec­tions 17070.IO through 17079, and that are submitted to the Division of the State Architect for plan review after July I, 2011, in accordance with Education Code I7075.50 shall include locks that allow doors to class­rooms and any room with an occupancy of five or more persons to be locked from the inside. The locks shall con­form to the specification and requirements found in Sec­tion I008.I.9. 
Exceptions: 
I. Doors that 	are locked from the outside at all times such as, but not limited to, janitor's closet, electrical room, storage room, boiler room, ele­vator equipment room and pupil restroom. 
2. 	
Reconstruction projects that utilize original plans in accordance with California Administrative Code, Section 4-3I4. 

3. 	
Existing relocatable buildings that are relocated within the same site, in accordance with Califor­nia Administrative Code, Section 4-3I4. 


[B] 1008.2 Gates. Gates serving the means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section. Gates used as a component in a means of egress shall conform to the applicable requirements for doors. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Exception: Horizontal sliding or swinging gates exceed­ing the 4-foot (1219 mm) maximum leaf width limitation are permitted in fences and walls surrounding a stadium. 
[B] 1008.2.1 Stadiums. Panic hardware is not required on gates surrounding stadiums where such gates are under constant immediate supervision while the public is pres­ent, and where safe dispersal areas based on 3 square feet 
(0.28 m2) per occupant are located between the fence and enclosed space. Such required safe dispersal areas shall not be located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from the enclosed space. See Section 1027.5 for means of egress from safe dispersal areas. 

[B] 1008.3 Turnstiles. Turnstiles or similar devices that restrict travel to one direction shall not be placed so as to obstruct any required means of egress. 
Exception: Each turnstile or similar device shall be cred­ited with no more than a 50-person capacity where all of the following provisions are met: 
1. 	
Each device shall turn free in the direction of egress travel when primary power is lost, and upon the manual release by an employee in the area. 

2. 	
Such devices are not given credit for more than 50 percent of the required egress capacity. 

3. 	
Each device is not more than 39 inches (991 mm) high. 

4. 
Each device has at least 161inches (419 mm) clear 


/2 
width at and below a height of 39 inches (991 mm) and at least 22 inches (559 mm) clear width at heights above 39 inches (991 mm). 

Where located as part of an accessible route, turnstiles shall have at least 36 inches (914 mm) clear at and below a height of 34 inches (864 mm), at least 32 inches (813 mm) clear width between 34 inches (864 mm) and 80 inches (2032 mm) and shall consist of a mechanism other than a revolving device. 
[B] 
1008.3.1 High turnstile. Turnstiles more than 39 inches (991 mm) high shall meet the requirements for revolving doors. 

[B] 
1008.3.2 Additional door. Where serving an occupant load greater than 300, each turnstile that is not portable shall have a side-hinged swinging door which conforms to Section 1008.1 within 50 feet (15 240 mm). 


SECTION 1009 
STAIRWAYS 


[B] 
1009.1 General. Stairways serving occupied portions of a building shall comply with the requirements of this section. 

[B] 
1009.2 Interior exit stairways. Interior exit stair­ways shall lead directly to the exterior of the building or shall be extended to the exterior of the building with an exit pas­sageway conforming to the requirements of Section 1023, except as permitted in Section 1027.1. 

[B] 
1009.2.1 Where required. Interior exit stairways shall be included, as necessary, to meet one or more means 



MEANS OF EGRESS 
of egress design requirements, such as required number of exits or exit access travel distance. 

[B] 
1009.2.2 Enclosure. All interior exit stairways shall be enclosed in accordance with the provisions of Section 1022. 


[B] 
1009.3 Exit access stairways. Floor openings between stories created by exit access stairways shall be enclosed. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
In other than Group I-2, I-2.1, I-3 and R-2.1 occu­pancies, exit access stairways that serve, or atmo­spherically communicate between, only two stories, are not required to be enclosed. 

2. 	
Exit access stairways serving and contained within a single residential dwelling unit or sleeping unit in Group R-1, R-2 or R-3 occupancies are not required to be enclosed. 

3. 	
In buildings with only Group B or M occupancies, exit access stairway openings are not required to be enclosed provided that the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, the area of the floor opening between stories does not exceed twice the horizontal projected area of the exit access stairway, and the opening is protected by a draft curtain and closely spaced sprinklers in accordance with NFPA 13. 

4. 	
In other than Group B, I-2, I-2.1, I-3 and M occu­pancies, exit access stairway openings are not required to be enclosed provided that the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, the floor opening does not connect more than four sto­ries, the area of the floor opening between stories does not exceed twice the horizontal projected area of the exit access stairway, and the opening is pro­tected by a draft curtain and closely spaced sprin­klers in accordance with NFPA 13. 

5. 	
Exit access stairways within an atrium complying with the provisions of Section 404 of the Califor­nia Building Code are not required to be enclosed. 

6. 	
Exit access stairways and ramps in open parking garages that serve only the parking garage are not required to be enclosed. 

7. 	
Stairways serving outdoor facilities where all por­tions of the means of egress are essentially open to the outside are not required to be enclosed. 

8. 	
Exit access stairways serving stages, platforms and technical production areas in accordance with Sec­tions 410.6.2 and 410.6.3 of the California Build­ing Code are not required to be enclosed. 

9. 	
Stairways are permitted to be open between the balcony, gallery or press box and the main assem­bly floor in occupancies such as theaters, places of religious worship, auditoriums and sports facilities. 

10. 
In Group I-3 occupancies, exit access 	stairways constructed in accordance with Section 408.5 of 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
the California Building Code are not required to be enclosed. 

11. 	Fixed guideway transit stations, constructed in accordance with Section 433 of the California Building Code. 
[B] 
1009.3.1 Construction. Where required, enclosures for exit access stairways shall be constructed in accor­dance with this section. Exit access stairway enclosures shall be constructed as fire barriers in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies in accordance with Section 711 of the Califor­nia Building Code, or both. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.1 Materials. Exit access stairway enclo­sures shall be of materials permitted by the building type of construction. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.2 Fire-resistance rating. Exit access stairway enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours where connecting four stories or more, and not less than 1 hour where connecting less than four stories. The number of stories connected by the exit access stairway enclosures shall include any basements, but not any mezzanines. Exit access stair­way enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.3 Continuity. Exit access stairway enclo­sures shall have continuity in accordance with Section 


707.5 of the California Building Code for fire barriers or Section 711.4 of the California Building Code for horizontal assemblies as applicable. 
[B] 
1009.3.1.4 Openings. Openings in an exit access stairway enclosure shall be protected in accordance with Section 716 of the California Building Code as required for fire barriers. Doors shall be self-or auto­matic-closing by smoke detection in accordance with Section 716.5.9.3 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.4.1 Prohibited openings. Openings other than those necessary for the purpose of the exit access stairway enclosure shall not be permitted in exit access stairway enclosures. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.5 Penetrations. Penetrations in an exit access stairway enclosure shall be protected in accor­dance with Section 714 of the California Building Code as required for fire barriers. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.5.1 Prohibited penetrations. Penetra­tions other than those necessary for the purpose of the exit access stairway enclosure shall not be per­mitted in exit access stairway enclosures. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.6 Joints. Joints in an exit access stairway enclosure shall comply with Section 715 of the Califor­nia Building Code. 

[B] 
1009.3.1.7 Ducts and air transfer openings. Pene­trations of an exit access stairway enclosure by ducts and air transfer openings shall comply with Section 717 of the California Building Code. 


[B] 
1009.3.1.8 Exterior walls. Where exterior walls serve as a part of an exit access stairway enclosure, such walls shall comply with the requirements of Sec­tion 705 of the California Building Code for exterior walls and the fire-resistance-rated enclosure require­ments shall not apply. 

[B] 
1009.4 Width. The width of stairways shall be deter­mined as specified in Section 1005.1, but such width shall not be less than 44 inches (1118 mm). See Section 1007.3 for accessible means of egress stairways. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Stairways serving an occupant load of less than 50 shall have a width of not less than 36 inches (914 mm). 

2. 	
Spiral stairways as provided for in Section 1009.12. 

3. 	
Aisle stairs complying with Section 1028. 

4. 	
Where an incline platform lift or stairway chairlift is installed on stairways serving occupancies in Group R-3, or within dwelling units in occupancies in Group R-2, a clear passage width not less than 20 inches (508 mm) shall be provided. If the seat and platform can be folded when not in use, the distance shall be measured from the folded position. 


Means of egress stairs in a Group 1-2 occupancy used for the movement of beds and litter patients shall provide a clear width not less than 44 inches (1118 mm). 
[B] 1009.5 Headroom. Stairways shall have a minimum headroom clearance of 80 inches (2032 mm) measured verti­cally from a line connecting the edge of the nosings. Such headroom shall be continuous above the stairway to the point where the line intersects the landing below, one tread depth beyond the bottom riser. The minimum clearance shall be maintained the full width of the stairway and landing. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Spiral stairways complying with Section 1009.12 are permitted a 78-inch (1981 mm) headroom clear­ance. 

2. 	
In Group R-3 occupancies; within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; and in Group U occupan­cies that are accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy or accessory to individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; where the nosings of treads at the side of a flight extend under the edge of a floor opening through which the stair passes, the floor opening shall be allowed to project horizontally into the required headroom a maximum of 43inches (121 


/4 

mm). 
[B] 1009.6 Walkline. The walkline across winder treads shall be concentric to the direction of travel through the turn and located 12 inches (305 mm) from the side where the winders are narrower. The 12-inch (305 mm) dimension shall be mea­sured from the widest point of the clear stair width at the walking surface of the winder. If winders are adjacent within the flight, the point of the widest clear stair width of the adja­cent winders shall be used. 
MEANS OF EGRESS 

[B] 
1009.7 Stair treads and risers. Stair treads and risers shall comply with Sections 1009.7.1 through 1009.7.5.3. 

[B] 
1009.7.1 Dimension reference surfaces. For the pur­pose of this section, all dimensions are exclusive of car­pets, mgs or mnners. 

[B] 
1009.7.2 Riser height and tread depth. Stair riser heights shall be 7 inches (178 mm) maximum and 4 inches (102 mm) minimum. The riser height shall be measured vertically between the nosings of adjacent treads. Rectan­gular tread depths shall be 11 inches (279 mm) minimum measured horizontally between the vertical planes of the foremost projection of adjacent treads and at a right angle to the tread's nosing. Winder treads shall have a minimum tread depth of 11 inches (279 mm) between the vertical planes of the foremost projection of adjacent treads at the intersections with the walkline and a minimum tread depth of 10 inches (254 mm) within the clear width of the stair. 



Exceptions: 
1. 	
Alternating tread devices in accordance with Sec­tion 1009.13. 

2. 	
Ship ladders in accordance with Section 1009.14. 

3. 	
Spiral stairways in accordance with Section 1009.12. 

4. 	
Aisle stairs in assembly seating areas where the stair pitch or slope is set, for sightline reasons, by the slope of the adjacent seating area in accor­dance with Section 1 028.11.2. 

5. 	
In Group R-3 occupancies; within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; and in Group U occu­pancies that are accessory to a Group R-3 occu­pancy or accessory to individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; the maximum riser height shall be 73inches (197 mm); the mini­


/4 
mum tread depth shall be 10 inches (254 mm); the minimum winder tread depth at the walkline shall be 10 inches (254 mm); and the minimum winder tread depth shall be 6 inches (152 mm). A nosing projection not less than 3inch (19.1 mm) 
/4 
but not more than 11 inches (32 mm) shall be 
/4 
provided on stairways with solid risers where the tread depth is less than 11 inches (279 mm). 
6. 	
See Section 3404.1 of the California Building Code for the replacement of existing stairways. 

7. 	
In Group I-3 facilities, stairways providing access to guard towers, observation stations and control rooms, not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area, shall be permitted to have a maxi­mum riser height of 8 inches (203 mm) and a minimum tread depth of 9 inches (229 mm). 


8. 	[SFM] Stairways providing access to lifeguard towers not open to the public, not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area, shall be permitted to have a maximum riser height of 8 inches (203 mm) and a minimum tread depth of9 inches (229 mm). 
[B] 1009.7.3 Winder treads. Winder treads are not per­mitted in means of egress stairways except within a dwell­ing unit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Curved stairways in accordance with Section 1009.11. 

2. 	
Spiral stairways in accordance with Section 1009.12. 


[B] 1009.7.4 Dimensional uniformity. Stair treads and risers shall be of uniform size and shape. The tolerance between the largest and smallest riser height or between the largest and smallest tread depth shall not exceed 3
/8 
inch (9.5 mm) in any flight of stairs. The greatest winder tread depth at the walkline within any flight of stairs shall not exceed the smallest by more than 3inch (9.5 mm). 
/8 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Nonuniform riser dimensions of aisle stairs com­plying with Section 1 028.11.2. 

2. 	
Consistently shaped winders, complying with Section 1009.7, differing from rectangular treads in the same stairway flight. 


Where the bottom or top riser adjoins a sloping public way, walkway or driveway having an established grade and serving as a landing, the bottom or top riser is permit­ted to be reduced along the slope to less than 4 inches ( 102 mm) in height, with the variation in height of the bottom or top riser not to exceed one unit vertical in 12 units hori­zontal (8-percent slope) of stairway width. The nosings or leading edges of treads at such nonuniform height risers shall have a distinctive marking stripe, different from any other nosing marking provided on the stair flight. The dis­tinctive marking stripe shall be visible in descent of the stair and shall have a slip-resistant surface. Marking stripes shall have a width of at least 1 inch (25 mm) but not more than 2 inches (51 mm). 
[B] 1009.7.5 Nosing and riser profile. The radius of curvature at the leading edge of the tread shall be not greater than 9inch (14.3 mm). Beveling of nosings
/ 16 
shall not exceed 9inch (14.3 mm). Risers shall be 
/ 16 
solid and vertical or sloped under the tread above from the underside of the nosing above at an angle not more than 30 degrees (0.52 rad) from the vertical. 
[B] 1009.7.5.1 Nosing projection size. The leading edge (nosings) of treads shall project not more than 11inches (32 mm) beyond the tread below. 
/4 
[B] 
1009.7.5.2 Nosing projection uniformity. All nosing projections of the leading edges shall be of uniform size, including the projections of the nosings leading edge of the floor at the top of a flight. 

[B] 
1009.7.5.3 Solid risers. Risers shall be solid. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Solid risers are not required for stairways that are not required to comply with Section 1007.3, provided that the opening between treads does not permit the passage of a sphere with a diameter of 4 inches (102 mm). 

2. 	
Solid risers are not required for occupancies in Group 1-3 or in Group F, HandS occupan­cies other than areas accessible to the public. There are no restrictions on the size of the opening in the riser. 

3. 	
Solid risers are not required for spiral stair­ways constructed in accordance with Section 1009.12. 

4. 	
Solid risers are not required for alternating tread devices constructed in accordance with Section 1009.13. 



[B] 1009.8 Stairway landings. There shall be a floor or land­ing at the top and bottom of each stairway. The width of land­ings shall not be less than the width of stairways they serve. Every landing shall have a minimum width measured perpen­dicular to the direction of travel equal to the width of the stairway. Where the stairway has a straight run the depth need not exceed 48 inches (1219 mm). Doors opening onto a land­ing shall not reduce the landing to less than one-half the required width. When fully open, the door shall not project more than 7 inches (178 mm) into a landing. When wheel­chair spaces are required on the stairway landing in accor­dance with Section 1007.6.1, the wheelchair space shall not be located in the required width of the landing and doors shall not swing over the wheelchair spaces. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Aisle stairs complying with Section 1028. 
2. 	In Group R-3 occupancies, a floor or landing is not required at the top ofan interior flight ofstairs, includ­ing stairs in an enclosed garage, provided a door does not swing over the stairs. 
[B] 
1009.9 Stairway construction. All stairways shall be built of materials consistent with the types permitted for the type of construction of the building, except that wood hand­rails shall be permitted for all types of construction. 

[B] 
1009.9.1 Stairway walking surface. The walking sur­face of treads and landings of a stairway shall not be sloped steeper than one unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2-percent slope) in any direction. Stairway treads and landings shall have a solid surface. Finish floor surfaces shall be securely attached. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Openings in stair walking surfaces shall be a size that does not permit the passage of 1/ 2-inch-diam­eter (12.7 mm) sphere. Elongated openings shall be placed so that the long dimension is perpen­dicular to the direction of travel. 

2. 	
In Group F, H and S occupancies, other than areas of parking structures accessible to the pub-


lie, openings in treads and landings shall not be prohibited provided a sphere with a diameter of 11inches (29 mm) cannot pass through the
/8 
opening. 

[B] 
1009.9.2 Outdoor conditions. Outdoor stairways and outdoor approaches to stairways shall be designed so that water will not accumulate on walking surfaces. 

[B] 
1009.9.3 Enclosures under interior stairways. The walls and soffits within enclosed usable spaces under enclosed and unenclosed stairways shall be protected by 1­hour fire-resistance-rated construction or the fire-resis­tance rating of the stairway enclosure, whichever is greater. Access to the enclosed space shall not be directly from within the stair enclosure. 

Exception: Spaces under stairways serving and con­tained within a single residential dwelling unit in Group R-2 or R-3 shall be permitted to be protected on the enclosed side with 1/ 2-inch (12.7 mm) gypsum board. 

[B] 
1009.9.4 Enclosure under exterior stairways. There shall be no enclosed usable space under exterior exit stair­ways unless the space is completely enclosed in 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. The open space under exterior stairways shall not be used for any purpose. 

[B] 
1009.10 Vertical rise. A f1ight of stairs shall not have a vertical rise greater than 12 feet (3658 mm) between floor levels or landings. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Aisle stairs complying with Section 1028. 

2. 	
Alternating tread devices used as a means of egress shall not have a rise greater than 20 feet (6096 mm) between floor levels or landings. 

3. 	
Spiral stairways used as a means of egress from technical production areas. 


[B] 
1009.11 Curved stairways. Curved stairways with winder treads shall have treads and risers in accordance with Section 1009.7 and the smallest radius shall not be less than twice the required width of the stairway. 

Exception: The radius restriction shall not apply to curved stairways for occupancies in Group R-3 and within indi­vidual dwelling units in occupancies in Group R-2. 

[B] 
1009.12 Spiral stairways. Spiral stairways are permitted to be used as a component in the means of egress only within dwelling units or from a space not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area and serving not more than five occupants, or from technical production areas in accordance with Section 


410.6 of the California Building Code. 
A spiral stairway shall have a 71/ 2-inch (191 mm) mini­mum clear tread depth at a point 12 inches (305 mm) from the narrow edge. The risers shall be sufficient to provide a head­room of78 inches (1981 mm) minimum, but riser height shall not be more than 91/ 2 inches (241 mm). The minimum stair­way clear width at and below the handrail shall be 26 inches (660 mm). 
[B] 1009.13 Alternating tread devices. Alternating tread devices are limited to an element of a means of egress in buildings of Groups F, HandS from a mezzanine not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area and which serves not more than five occupants; in buildings of Group I-3 from a guard tower, observation station or control room not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area and for access to unoccu­pied roofs. 
[B] 
1009.13.1 Handrails of alternating tread devices. Handrails shall be provided on both sides of alternating tread devices and shall comply with Section 1012. 

[B] 
1009.13.2 Treads of alternating tread devices. Alternating tread devices shall have a minimum tread depth of 5 inches (127 mm), a minimum projected tread depth of 81 inches (216 mm), a minimum tread width of7


/2 inches (178 mm) and a maximum riser height of 91/ 2 inches (241 mm). The tread depth shall be measured hori­zontally between the vertical planes of the foremost pro­jections of adjacent treads. The riser height shall be measured vertically between the leading edges of adjacent treads. The riser height and tread depth provided shall result in an angle of ascent from the horizontal of between 50 and 70 degrees (0.87 and 1.22 rad). The initial tread of the device shall begin at the same elevation as the plat­form, landing or floor smface. 
Exception: Alternating tread devices used as an ele­ment of a means of egress in buildings from a mezza­nine area not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) in area which serves not more than five occupants shall have a minimum tread depth of 3 inches (76 mm) with a mini­mum projected tread depth of 101/ 2 inches (267 mm). The rise to the next alternating tread surface shall not exceed 8 inches (203 mm). 

[B] 1009.14 Ship ladders. Ship ladders are permitted to be used in Group 1-3 as a component of a means of egress to and from control rooms or elevated facility observation stations not more than 250 square feet (23 m2) with not more than three occupants and for access to unoccupied roofs. 
Ship ladders shall have a minimum tread depth of 5 inches (127 mm). The tread shall be projected such that the total of the tread depth plus the nosing projection is no less than 81/ 2 inches (216 mm). The maximum riser height shall be 91/ 2 inches (241 mm). 
Handrails shall be provided on both sides of ship ladders. The minimum clear width at and below the handrails shall be 20 inches (508 mm). 
[B] 1009.15 Handrails. Stairways shall have handrails on each side and shall comply with Section 1012. Where glass is used to provide the handrail, the handrail shall also comply with Section 2407 of the California Building Code. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Handrails for aisle stairs provided in accordance with Section 1028.13. 

2. 	
Stairways within dwelling units and spiral stairways are permitted to have a handrail on one side only. 

3. 	
Decks, patios and walkways that have a single change in elevation where the landing depth on each 


MEANS OF EGRESS 
side of the change of elevation is greater than what is required for a landing do not require handrails. 
4. In Group R-3 	occupancies, a continuous run of treads or flight of stairs with less than four risers does not require handrails. 
5. 	Changes in room elevations of three or fewer risers within dwelling units and sleeping units in Groups R-2 and R-3 do not require handrails. 

[B] 
1009.16 Stairway to roof. In buildings four or more sto­ries above grade plane, one stairway shall extend to the roof surface, unless the roof has a slope steeper than four units vertical in 12 units horizontal (33-percent slope). In buildings without an occupied roof, access to the roof from the top story shall be permitted to be by an alternating tread device. 

[B] 
1009.16.1 Roof access. Where a stairway is provided to a roof, access to the roof shall be provided through a penthouse complying with Section 1509.2 of the Califor­nia Building Code. 

Exception: In buildings without an occupied roof, access to the roof shall be permitted to be a roof hatch or trap door not less than 16 square feet (1.5 m2) in area and having a minimum dimension of 2 feet (610 mm). 


[B] 
1009.16.2 Protection at roof hatch openings. Where the roof hatch opening providing the required access is located within I 0 feet (3049 mm) of the roof edge, such roof access or roof edge shall be protected by guards installed in accordance with the provisions of Section 1013. 

[B] 
1009.17 Stairway to elevator equipment. Roofs and penthouses containing elevator equipment that must be accessed for maintenance are required to be accessed by a stairway. 


SECTION 1 010 
RAMPS 


[B] 1010.1 Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to ramps used as a component of a means of egress. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Other than ramps that are part of the accessible routes providing access in accordance with Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code, ramped aisles within assembly rooms or spaces shall conform with the provisions in Section 1028.11. 

2. 	
Curb ramps shall comply with Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code. 

3. 	
Vehicle ramps in parking garages for pedestrian exit access shall not be required to comply with Sections 1010.4 through 1010.10 when they are not an acces­sible route serving accessible parking spaces, other required accessible elements or part of an accessible means of egress. 



[B] 1010.2 Enclosure. All interior exit ramps shall be enclosed in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sec­tion 1022. Exit access ramps shall be enclosed in accordance 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
with the provisions of Section 1009.3 for enclosure of stair­ways. 
[B] 
1010.3 Slope. Ramps used as part of a means of egress shall have a running slope not steeper than one unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (8-percent slope). The slope of other pedestrian ramps shall not be steeper than one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12.5-percent slope). 

Exception: Aisle ramp slope in a room or space used for assembly purposes shall comply with Section 1028.11. 

[B] 
1010.4 Cross slope. The slope measured perpendicular to the direction of travel of a ramp shall not be steeper than one unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2-percent slope). 

[B] 
1010.5 Vertical rise. The rise for any ramp run shall be 30 inches (762 mm) maximum. 

[B] 
1010.6 Minimum dimensions. The minimum dimen­sions of means of egress ramps shall comply with Sections 1010.6.1 through 1010.6.3. 

[B] 
1010.6.1 Width. The minimum width of a means of egress ramp shall not be less than that required for corri­dors by Section 1018.2. The clear width of a ramp between handrails, if provided, or other permissible pro­jections shall be 36 inches (914 mm) minimum. 

[B] 
1010.6.2 Headroom. The minimum headroom in all parts of the means of egress ramp shall not be less than 80 inches (2032 mm). 

[B] 
1010.6.3 Restrictions. Means of egress ramps shall not reduce in width in the direction of egress travel. Pro­jections into the required ramp and landing width are pro­hibited. Doors opening onto a landing shall not reduce the clear width to less than 42 inches (1067 mm). 

[B] 
1010.7 Landings. Ramps shall have landings at the bot­tom and top of each ramp, points of turning, entrance, exits and at doors. Landings shall comply with Sections 1010.7.1 through 1010.7.5. 

[B] 
1010.7.1 Slope. Landings shall have a slope not steeper than one unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2-per­cent slope) in any direction. Changes in level are not per­mitted. 

[B] 
1010.7.2 Width. The landing shall be at least as wide as the widest ramp run adjoining the landing. 

[B] 
1010.7.3 Length. The landing length shall be 60 inches (1525 mm) minimum. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
In Group R-2 and R-3 individual dwelling and sleeping units that are not required to be Accessi­ble units or adaptable units, landings are permit­ted to be 36 inches (914 mm) minimum. 

2. 	
Where the ramp is not a part of an accessible route, the length of the landing shall not be required to be more than 48 inches (1219 mm) in the direction of travel. 



[B] 1010.7.4 Change in direction. Where changes in direction of travel occur at landings provided between ramp runs, the landing shall be 60 inches by 60 inches (1524 mm by 1524 mm) minimum. 
Exception: In Group R-2 and R-3 individual dwelling or sleeping units that are not required to be Accessible units or adaptable units in accordance with Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code, landings are permitted to be 36 inches by 36 inches (914 mm by 914 mm) minimum. 
[B] 
1010.7.5 Doorways. Where doorways are located adjacent to a ramp landing, maneuvering clearances required by Chapter llA or liB of the California Build­ing Code are permitted to overlap the required landing area. 

[B] 
1010.8 Ramp construction. All ramps shall be built of materials consistent with the types permitted for the type of construction of the building, except that wood handrails shall be permitted for all types of construction. 

[B] 
1010.8.1 Ramp surface. The surface of ramps shall be of slip-resistant materials that are securely attached. 

[B] 
1010.8.2 Outdoor conditions. Outdoor ramps and outdoor approaches to ramps shall be designed so that water will not accumulate on walking surfaces. 

[B] 
1010.9 Handrails. Ramps with a rise greater than 6 inches (152 mm) shall have handrails on both sides. Hand­rails shall comply with Section 1012. 

Exception: Handrails for ramped aisles provided in accor­dance with Section 1028.13. 

[B] 
1010.10 Edge protection. Edge protection complying with Section 1010.10.1 or 1010.10.2 shall be provided on each side of ramp runs and at each side of ramp landings. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Edge protection is not required on ramps that are not required to have handrails, provided they have flared sides that comply with Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code curb ramp provisions. 

2. 	
Edge protection is not required on the sides of ramp landings serving an adjoining ramp run or stairway. 

3. 	
Edge protection is not required on the sides of ramp landings having a vertical drop off of not more than 1inch (12.7 mm) within 10 inches (254 mm) hori­


/2 
zontally of the required landing area. 
4. In assembly spaces with fixed seating, edge protec­tion is not required on the sides of ramps where the ramps provide access to the adjacent seating and aisle accessways. 
[B] 
1010.10.1 Curb, rail, wall or barrier. A curb, rail, wall or barrier shall be provided to serve as edge protec­tion. A curb must be a minimum of 4 inches (102 mm) in height. Barriers must be constructed so that the ban·ier pre­vents the passage of a 4-inch-diameter (102 mm) sphere, where any portion of the sphere is within 4 inches (1 02 mm) of the floor or ground surface. 

[B] 
1010.10.2 Extended floor or ground surface. The floor or ground surface of the ramp run or landing shall extend 12 inches (305 mm) minimum beyond the inside face of a handrail complying with Section 1012. 


MEANS OF EGRESS 

[B] 1010.11 Guards. Guards shall be provided where required by Section 1013 and shall be constructed in accor­dance with Section 1013. 
SECTION 1 011 EXIT SIGNS 

[B] 1011.1 Where required. Exits and exit access doors shall be marked by an approved exit sign readily visible from any direction of egress travel. The path of egress travel to exits and within exits shall be marked by readily visible exit signs to clearly indicate the direction of egress travel in cases where the exit or the path of egress travel is not immediately visible to the occupants. Intervening means of egress doors within exits shall be marked by exit signs. Exit sign place­ment shall be such that no point in an exit access corridor or exit passageway is more than 100 feet (30 480 mm) or the listed viewing distance for the sign, whichever is less, from the nearest visible exit sign. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Exit signs are not required in rooms or areas that require only one exit or exit access. 

2. 	
Main exterior exit doors or gates that are obviously and clearly identifiable as exits need not have exit signs where approved by the fire code official. 

3. 	
Exit signs are not required in occupancies in Group U and individual sleeping units or dwelling units in Group R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-3.1. 

4. 	
Exit signs are not required where inmates are housed or held in dayrooms, sleeping rooms or dor­mitories in occupancies in Group I-3. 

5. 	
In occupancies in Groups A-4 and A-5, exit signs are not required on the seating side of vomitories or openings into seating areas where exit signs are pro­vided in the concourse that are readily apparent from the vomitories. Egress lighting is provided to iden­tify each vomitory or opening within the seating area in an emergency. 



II 
[B] 1011.2 Floor-level exit signs in Group R-1. See Section 1011.7. 
[B] 1011.3 Illumination. Exit signs shall be internally or externally illuminated. 
Exception: Tactile signs required by Section 1011.4 need not be provided with illumination. 

[B] 1011.4 Raised character and Braille exit signs. Tactile exit signs shall be required at the following locations: 
1. 	
Each grade-level exterior exit door that is required to comply with Section 1011.1 shall be identified by a tac­tile exit sign with the word, "EXIT." 

2. 	
Each exit door that is required to comply with Section 1011.1, and that leads directly to a grade-level exterior exit by means ofa stairway or ramp, shall be identified by a tactile exit sign with the following words, as appropriate: 


2.1. "EXIT STAIR DOWN" 
2.2. "EXIT RAMP DOWN" 
2.3. "EXIT STAIR UP" 

2.4. 
"EXIT RAMP UP" 

3. 	
Each exit door that is required to comply with Section 1011.1, and that leads directly to a grade-level exterior exit by means of an exit enclosure or an exit passage­way shall be identified by a tactile exit sign with the words, "EXIT ROUTE." 


4. 	
Each exit access door from an interior room or area to a corridor or hallway that is required to comply with Section 1011.1 shall be identified by a tactile exit sign with the words "EXIT ROUTE." 

5. 	
Each exit door through a horizontal exit that is required to comply with Section 1011.1 shall be identi­fied by a sign with the words, "TO EXIT." 


Raised character and Braille exit signs shall comply with I I Chapter JIB ofthe California Building Code. 
[B] 
1011.5 Internally illuminated exit signs. Electrically powered, self-luminous and photoluminescent exit signs shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 924 and shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and Chapter 27 of the California Building Code. Exit signs shall be illuminated at all times. 

[B] 
1011.6 Externally illuminated exit signs. Externally illuminated exit signs shall comply with Sections 1011.6.1 through 1011.6.3. 

[B] 
1011.6.1 Graphics. Every exit sign and directional exit sign shall have plainly legible letters not less than 6 inches (152 mm) high with the principal strokes of the let­ters not less than 3inch (19.1 mm) wide. The word 


/4 

"EXIT" shall have letters having a width not less than 2 inches (51 mm) wide, except the letter "I," and the mini­mum spacing between letters shall not be less than \ inch 
(9.5 mm). Signs larger than the minimum established in this section shall have letter widths, strokes and spacing in proportion to their height. 
The word "EXIT" shall be in high contrast with the background and shall be clearly discernible when the means of exit sign illumination is or is not energized. If a chevron directional indicator is provided as part of the exit sign, the construction shall be such that the direction of the chevron directional indicator cannot be readily changed. 
[B) 1011.6.2 Exit sign illumination. The face of an exit sign illuminated from an external source shall have an intensity of not less than 5 footcandles (54 lux). 
[B] 1011.6.3 Power source. Exit signs shall be illumi­nated at all times. To ensure continued illumination for a duration of not less than 90 minutes in case of primary power loss, the sign illumination means shall be connected to an emergency power system provided from storage bat­teries, unit equipment or an on-site generator. The installa­tion of the emergency power system shall be in accordance with Section 604. 
Exception: Approved exit sign illumination means that provide continuous illumination independent of exter­nal power sources for a duration of not less than 90 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
minutes, in case of primary power loss, are not required to be connected to an emergency electrical system. 
II 	1011.7 Floor-level exit signs. Where exit signs are required by Chapter 10, additional approved low-level exit signs which are internally or externally illuminated photolumines­cent or self-luminous shall be provided in all interior corri­
11 	dors of Group A, E, I and R-2.I occupancies and in all areas serving guest rooms of hotels in Group R, Division 1 occu­pancies. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Group A occupancies that are protected throughout by an approved supervised fire sprinkler system. 

2. 	
Group E occupancies where direct exits have been provided from each classroom. 

3. 	
Group I and R-2.1 occupancies which are provided with smoke barriers constructed in accordance with Section 407.4 

4. 	
Group I-3 occupancies. 


The bottom ofthe sign shall not be less than 6 inches (152 mm) or more than 8 inches (203 mm) above the floor level and shall indicate the path ofexit travel. For exit and exit-access doors, the sign shall be on the door or adjacent to the door with the closest edge ofthe sign or marker within 4 inches ( 102 mm) ofthe door frame. 
Note: Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13143, this California amendment applies to all newly constructed buildings or structures, subject to this section, for which a building permit is issued (or construction commenced, where no building permit is issued) on or after January 1, 1989. 

II 	1011.8 Path marking. When exit signs are required by Chap­ter 10, in addition to approved floor-level exit signs, approved path marking shall be installed at floor level or no higher than 8 inches (203 mm) above the floor level in all interior-rated exit corridors of unsprinklered Group A, R-1 and R-2 occupancies. 
Such marking shall be continuous, except as interrupted by door-ways, corridors or other such architectural features, in order to provide a visible delineation along the path oftravel. 
Note: Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13143, the California amendments of this section shall apply to all newly constructed buildings or structures, subject to this section, for which a building permit is issued (or con­struction commenced, where no building permit is issued) on or after January I, 1989. 
SECTION 1012 HANDRAILS 

[B) 1012.1 Where required. Handrails for stairways and ramps shall be adequate in strength and attachment in accor­dance with Section 1607.8 of the California Building Code. Handrails required for stairways by Section 1009.15 shall comply with Sections 1012.2 through 1012.9. Handrails required for ramps by Section 1010.9 shall comply with Sec­tions 1012.2 through 1012.8. 
[B) 1012.2 Height. Handrail height, measured above stair tread nosings, or finish surface of ramp slope, shall be uni­form, not less than 34 inches (864 mm) and not more than 38 inches (965 mm). Handrail height of alternating tread devices and ship ladders, measured above tread nosings, shall be uni­form, not less than 30 inches (762 mm) and not more than 34 inches (864 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
When handrail fittings or bendings are used to pro­vide continuous transition between flights, the fit­tings or bendings shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height. 

2. 	
In Group R-3 occupancies; within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; and in Group U occupan­cies that are associated with a Group R-3 occupancy or associated with individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; when handrail fittings or bendings are used to provide continuous transition between flights, transition at winder treads, transi­tion from handrail to guard, or when used at the start of a flight, the handrail height at the fittings or bend­ings shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height. 


[B) 1012.3 Handrail graspability. All required handrails shall comply with Section 1012.3.1 or shall provide equiva­lent graspability. 
Exception: In Group R-3 occupancies; within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; and in Group U occupan­cies that are accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy or acces­sory to individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies; handrails shall be Type I in accordance with Section 1012.3.1, Type II in accordance with Section 1012.3.2 or shall provide equivalent graspability. 
[B) 1012.3.1 Type I. Handrails with a circular cross sec­tion shall have an outside diameter of at least 11inches
/4 

(32 mm) and not greater than 2 inches (51 mm). Where the handrail is not circular, it shall have a perimeter dimension of at least 4 inches (102 mm) and not greater than 61
/4 

inches (160 mm) with a maximum cross-sectional dimen­sion of 21 inches (57 mm) and minimum cross-sectional 
/4 

dimension of I inch (25 mm). Edges shall have a minimum radius of 0.01 inch (0.25 mm). 
[B) 1012.3.2 Type II. Handrails with a perimeter greater than 61inches (160 mm) shall provide a graspable finger 
/4 
recess area on both sides of the profile. The finger recess shall begin within a distance of 3inch (19 mm) measured 
/4 

vertically from the tallest portion of the profile and achieve a depth of at least 5inch (8 mm) within 7inch
/16 	/8 

(22 mm) below the widest portion of the profile. This required depth shall continue for at least 3inch (10 mm) 
/8 

to a level that is not less than 13inches (45 mm) below 
/4 

the tallest portion of the profile. The minimum width of the handrail above the recess shall be 11inches (32 mm) 
/4 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
to a maximum of 23inches (70 mm). Edges shall have a 
/4 
minimum radius of 0.01 inch (0.25 mm). 

[B] 1012.4 Continuity. Handrail gripping surfaces shall be continuous, without intenuption by newel posts or other obstructions. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Handrails within dwelling units are permitted to be interrupted by a newel post at a turn or landing. 

2. 	
Within a dwelling unit, the use of a volute, turnout, starting easing or starting newel is allowed over the lowest tread. 

3. 	
Handrail brackets or balusters attached to the bottom surface of the handrail that do not project horizon­tally beyond the sides of the handrail within 11 


/2 
inches (38 mm) of the bottom of the handrail shall not be considered obstructions. For each 1inch
/2 
(12.7 mm) of additional handrail perimeter dimen­sion above 4 inches (102 mm), the vertical clearance dimension of 11inches (38 mm) shall be permitted 
/2 
to be reduced by 1inch (3 mm).
/8 
4. 	Where handrails are provided along walking sur­faces with slopes not steeper than 1 :20, the bottoms of the handrail gripping surfaces shall be permitted to be obstructed along their entire length where they are integral to crash rails or bumper guards. 

[B] 
1012.5 Fittings. Handrails shall not rotate within their fit­tings. 

[B] 
1012.6 Handrail extensions. Handrails shall return to a wall, guard or the walking surface or shall be continuous to the handrail of an adjacent stair flight or ramp run. Where handrails are not continuous between flights, the handrails shall extend horizontally at least 12 inches (305 mm) beyond the top riser and continue to slope for the depth of one tread beyond the bottom riser. At ramps where handrails are not continuous between runs, the handrails shall extend horizon­tally above the landing 12 inches (305 mm) minimum beyond the top and bottom of ramp runs. The extensions of handrails shall be in the same direction of the stair flights at stairways and the ramp runs at ramps. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Handrails within a dwelling unit that is not required to be accessible need extend only from the top riser to the bottom riser. 

2. 	
Aisle handrails in rooms or spaces used for assem­bly purposes in accordance with Section 1028.13. 

3. 	
Handrails for alternating tread devices and ship lad­ders are permitted to terminate at a location verti­cally above the top and bottom risers. Handrails for alternating tread devices and ship ladders are not required to be continuous between flights or to extend beyond the top or bottom risers. 



[B] 1012.7 Clearance. Clear space between a handrail and a wall or other surface shall be a minimum of 11inches (38
/2 

mm). A handrail and a wall or other surface adjacent to the handrail shall be free of any sharp or abrasive elements. 
[B] 1012.8 Projections. On ramps, the clear width between handrails shall be 36 inches (914 mm) minimum. Projections into the required width of stairways and ramps at each side shall not exceed 41inches (114 mm) at or below the handrail 
/2 

height. Projections into the required width shall not be limited above the minimum headroom height required in Section 1009.5. Projections due to intermediate handrails shall not constitute a reduction in the egress width. 
In Group 1-2 occupancies, ramps required for exit access shall not be less than 8 feet in width and handrails are per­mitted to protrude 3112 inches from the wall on both sides. For ramps used as exits and stairways used for the movement of bed and litter patients, the clear width between handrails shall be 44 inches ( 1118 mm) minimum. 
[B) 1012.9 Intermediate handrails. Stairways shall have intermediate handrails located in such a manner that all por­tions of the stairway width required for egress capacity are within 30 inches (762 mm) of a handrail. On monumental stairs, handrails shall be located along the most direct path of egress travel. 
SECTION 1 013 
GUARDS 


[B] 
1013.1 General. Guards shall comply with the provi­sions of Sections 1013.2 through 1013.7. Operable windows with sills located more than 72 inches (1.83 m) above fin­ished grade or other surface below shall comply with Section 1013.8. 

[B] 
1013.2 Where required. Guards shall be located along open-sided walking surfaces, including mezzanines, equip­ment platforms, stairs, ramps and landings that are located more than 30 inches (762 mm) measured vertically to the floor or grade below at any point within 36 inches (914 mm) horizontally to the edge of the open side. Guards shall be ade­quate in strength and attachment in accordance with Section 1607.8 of the California Building Code. 


Exception: Guards are not required for the following loca­
tions: 
1. 	
On the loading side of loading docks or piers. 

2. 	
On the audience side of stages and raised platforms, including steps leading up to the stage and raised platforms. 

3. 
On raised stage and platform floor areas, such 	as runways, ramps and side stages used for entertain­ment or presentations. 

4. 	
At vertical openings in the performance area of stages and platforms. 

5. 
At elevated walking surfaces appurtenant to stages and platforms for access to and utilization of special lighting or equipment. 

6. 	
Along vehicle service pits not accessible to the pub­lic. 

7. 	
In assembly seating where guards in accordance with Section 1028.14 are permitted and provided. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[B] 
1013.2.1 Glazing. Where glass is used to provide a guard or as a portion of the guard system, the guard shall also comply with Section 2407 of the California Building Code. Where the glazing provided does not meet the strength and attachment requirements of Section 1607.8 of the California Building Code, complying guards shall also be located along glazed sides of open-sided walking sur­faces. 

[B] 
1013.3 Height. Required guards shall not be less than 42 inches (1067 mm) high, measured vertically as follows: 


1. 	
From the adjacent walking surfaces; 

2. 	
On stairs, from the line connecting the leading edges of the tread nosings; and 

3. 	
On ramps, from the ramp surface at the guard. 


Exceptions: 
II 1. 	For occupancies in Group R-3, and within individual dwelling units in occupancies in Group R-2, guards on the open sides of stairs shall have a height not less than 34 inches (864 mm) measured vertically from a line connecting the leading edges of the treads. 
II 2. 	For occupancies in Group R-3, and within individual dwelling units in occupancies in Group R-2, where the top of the guard also serves as a handrail on the open sides of stairs, the top of the guard shall not be less than 34 inches (864 mm) and not more than 38 inches (965 mm) measured vertically from a line connecting the leading edges of the treads. 
3. 	
The guard height in assembly seating areas shall comply with Section 1028.14. 

4. 	
Along alternating tread devices and ship ladders, 


guards whose top rail also serves as a handrail, shall have height not less than 30 inches (762 mm) and not more than 34 inches (864 mm), measured verti­cally from the leading edge of the device tread nos­ing. 
[B] 1013.4 Opening limitations. Required guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 4 inches (102 mm) in diameter from the walking surface to the required guard height. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	From a height of 36 inches (914 mm) to 42 inches (1067 mm), guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 43inches (111 mm) in 
/8 

diameter. 
2. 	
The triangular openings at the open sides of a stair, formed by the riser, tread and bottom rail shall not allow passage of a sphere 6 inches (152 mm) in diameter. 

3. 	
At elevated walking surfaces for access to and use of electrical, mechanical or plumbing systems or equipment, guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter. 


4. 
In areas that are not open to the public within occu­pancies in Group I-3, F, H or S, and for alternating tread devices and ship ladders, guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter. 

5. 
In assembly seating areas, guards at the end of aisles where they terminate at a fascia of boxes, balconies and galleries shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 4 inches in diameter (1 02 mm) up to a height of 26 inches (660 mm). From a height of 26 inches (660 mm) to 42 inches (1067 mm) above the adjacent walking smfaces, guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 8 inches (203 mm) in diameter. 

6. 	
Within individual dwelling units and sleeping units in Group R-2 and R-3 occupancies, guards on the open sides of stairs shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 43(111 mm) inches in 


/8 

diameter. 
7. 	[SFM] In lifeguard towers not open to the public, guards shall not have openings which allow passage ofa sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter. 
[B] 
1013.5 Screen porches. Porches and decks which are enclosed with insect screening shall be provided with guards where the walking surface is located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below. 

[B] 
1013.6 Mechanical equipment. Guards shall be pro­vided where appliances, equipment, fans, roof hatch openings or other components that require service are located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of a roof edge or open side of a walking sur­face and such edge or open side is located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor, roof or grade below. The guard shall be constructed so as to prevent the passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter. The guard shall extend not less than 30 inches (762 mm) beyond each end of such appliance, equipment, fan or component. 

[B] 
1013.7 Roof access. Guards shall be provided where the roof hatch opening is located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of a roof edge or open side of a walking surface and such edge or open side is located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor, roof or grade below. The guard shall be constructed so as to prevent the passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter. 

[B] 
1013.8 Window sills. In Occupancy Groups R-2 and R-3, one-and two-family and multiple-family dwellings, where the opening of the sill portion of an operable window is located more than 72 inches (1829 mm) above the finished grade or other surface below, the lowest part of the clear opening of the window shall be at a height not less than 36 inches (915 mm) above the finished floor surface of the room in which the window is located. Operable sections of win­dows shall not permit openings that allow passage of a 4­inch-diameter (1 02 mm) sphere where such openings are located within 36 inches (915 mm) of the finished floor. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	Operable windows where the sill portion of the opening is located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
above the finished grade or other surface below and that are provided with window fall prevention devices that comply with ASTM F 2006. 
2. 	
Windows whose openings will not allow a 4-inch­diameter (102 mm) sphere to pass through the open­ing when the opening is in its largest opened posi­tion. 

3. 	
Openings that are provided with window fall pre­vention devices that comply with ASTM F 2090. 

4. 	
Windows that are provided with window opening control devices that comply with Section 1013.8.1. 


1013.8.1 Window opening control devices. Window opening control devices shall comply with ASTM F 2090. The window opening control device, after operation to release the control device allowing the window to fully open, shall not reduce the minimum net clear opening area of the window unit to less than the area required by Sec­tion 1029.2. 
SECTION 1014 
EXIT ACCESS 


[B] 
1014.1 General. The exit access shall comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 1003 through 1013. Exit access arrangement shall comply with Sections 1014 through 1019. 

[B] 
1014.2 Egress through intervening spaces. Egress through intervening spaces shall comply with this section. 


1. 	
Egress from a room or space shall not pass through adjoining or intervening rooms or areas, except where such adjoining rooms or areas and the area served are accessory to one or the other, are not a Group H occu­pancy and provide a discernible path of egress travel to an exit. 

Exception: Means of egress are not prohibited through adjoining or intervening rooms or spaces in a Group H, S or F occupancy when the adjoining or intervening rooms or spaces are the same or a lesser hazard occupancy group. 

2. 	
An exit access shall not pass through a room that can be locked to prevent egress. 

3. 	
Means of egress from dwelling units or sleeping areas shall not lead through other sleeping areas, toilet rooms or bat~rooms. 

4. 	
Egress shall not pass through kitchens, storage rooms, closets or spaces used for similar purposes. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Means of egress are not prohibited through a kitchen area serving adjoining rooms consti­tuting part of the same dwelling unit or sleep­ing unit. 

2. 	
Means of egress are not prohibited through stockrooms in Group M occupancies when all of the following are met: 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE MEANS OF EGRESS 
2.1. The stock is of the same hazard class­ification as that found in the main retail area; 
2.2. Not more than 50 percent of the exit access is through the stockroom; 
2.3. The 	stockroom is not subject to locking from the egress side; and 
2.4. There 	is a demarcated, minimum 44­inch-wide (1118 mm) aisle defined by full-or partial-height fixed walls or similar construction that will maintain the required width and lead directly from the retail area to the exit without obstructions. 

5. Exits shall not pass through any room subject to locking 
except in Group I-3 occupancies classified as detention 
facilities. 

[B] 1014.2.1 Multiple tenants. Where more than one ten­
ant occupies any one floor of a building or structure, each 
tenant space, dwelling unit and sleeping unit shall be pro­
vided with access to the required exits without passing 
through adjacent tenant spaces, dwelling units and sleep­
ing units. 

Exception: The means of egress from a smaller tenant space shall not be prohibited from passing through a larger adjoining tenant space where such rooms or spaces of the smaller tenant occupy less than 10 percent of the area of the larger tenant space through which they pass; are the same or similar occupancy group; a discernable path of egress travel to an exit is provided; and the means of egress into the adjoining space is not subject to locking from the egress side. A required means of egress serving the larger tenant space shall not pass through the smaller tenant space or spaces. 

1014.2.2 Basement exits in Group I-2 occupancies. For 
additional requirements for occupancies in Group I-2, see 
Section 407 ofthe California Building Code. 

[B] 1014.3 Common path of egress travel. The common 
-
path of egress travel shall not exceed the common path of egress travel distances in Table 1014.3. 
< 
SECTION 1015 EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS 

[B] 1015.1 Exits or exit access doorways from spaces. Two 
-
exits or exit access doorways from any space shall be pro­vided where one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	The occupant load of the space exceeds one of the val­
ues in Table 1015.1. 

-
Exceptions: 
1. 	In Group R-2 and R-3 occupancies, one means of egress is permitted within and from individ­ual dwelling units with a maximum occupant load of 20 where the dwelling unit is equipped 
219 

[B] TABLE 1014.3 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL 

OCCUPANCY  WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM (feet)  WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (feet) 
Occupant Load  
,;30  >30  
B, sd  100  75  100"  
u  100  75  75"  
F  75  75  100"  
H-1, H-2, H-3  Not Pennitted  Not Permitted  25"  
R-2  75  75  125b  
R-3e  75  75  125b  
I-3  100  100  100"  
All othersc, r  75  75  75"·b  

For SI: 1 foot =304.8 mm. 
a. 
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

b. 
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. See Section 903 for occupancies where automatic sprinkler systems are permitted in accordance with Section 903.3.1.2. 

c. 
For a room or space used for assembly purposes having fixed seating, see Section 1028.8. 

d. 
The length of a common path of egress travel in a Group S-2 open parking garage shall not be more than 100 feet (30 480 mm). 

e. 
The length of a common path of egress travel in a Group R-3 occupancy located in a mixed occupancy building. 

f. 	
For the distance limitation in Group I-2, see Section 407.4 of the California Building Code. 


throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 
903.3.1.2. 

II 
2. Care suites in Group 1-2 occupancies comply­ing with Section 407.4.3 of the California Building Code. 
2. 	
The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of Section 1014.3. 

3. 	
Where required by Section 1015.3, 1015.4, 1015.5 or 1015.6. 


4. 	In detention and correctional facilities and holding 
II 
> cells, such as are found in courthouse buildings, when the occupant load is more than 20 see Section 
408.3.11 ofthe California Building Code. 

Where a building contains mixed occupancies, each indi­vidual occupancy shall comply with the applicable require­ments for that occupancy. Where applicable, cumulative occupant loads from adjacent occupancies shall be consid­ered in accordance with the provisions of Section 1004.1. 
[B] TABLE 1015.1 SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY 
OCCUPANCY  MAXIMUM OCCUPANT LOAD  
A,B,E,F,M, U  49  
H-1, H-2, H-3  3  
H-4, H-5, 1-2.1, I-3, I-4, R  10  
s  29  
L  See Section 443.6.1  

a. For holding cells, see Section 408.3.11 ofthe California Building Code. 
[B] 1015.1.1 Three or more exits or exit access door­ways. Three exits or exit access doorways shall be pro­vided from any space with an occupant load of 501 to 1,000. Four exits or exit access doorways shall be pro­vided from any space with an occupant load greater than 1,000. 
[B] 
1015.2 Exit or exit access doorway arrangement. Required exits shall be located in a manner that makes their availability obvious. Exits shall be unobstructed at all times. Exit and exit access doorways shall be arranged in accor­dance with Sections 1015.2.1 and 1015.2.2. Exit access door­ways, contributing to the total number of exits or exit access doorways required by Sections 1015.1 and 1015.1.1, shall lead to separate exits. 

[B] 
1015.2.1 Two exits or exit access doorways. Where two exits or exit access doorways are required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed a distance apart equal to not less than one-half of the length of the maximum overall diago­nal dimension of the building or area to be served mea­sured in a straight line between exit doors or exit access doorways. Interlocking or scissor stairs shall be counted as one exit stairway. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where interior exit stairways are interconnected by a 1-hour fire-resistance-rated corridor con­forming to the requirements of Section 1018, the required exit separation shall be measured along the shortest direct line of travel within the corri­dor. 

2. 	
Where a building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the separation dis­tance of the exit doors or exit access doorways shall not be less than one-third of the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the area served. 


[B] 
1015.2.2 Three or more exits or exit access door­ways. Where access to three or more exits is required, at least two exit doors or exit access doorways shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of Section 1015.2.1. Additional required exit or exit access doorways shall be arranged a reasonable distance apart so that if one becomes blocked, the others will be available. 


[B] 
1015.3 Boiler, incinerator and furnace rooms. Two exit access doorways are required in boiler, incinerator and furnace rooms where the area is over 500 square feet ( 46 m2) and any fuel-fired equipment exceeds 400,000 British ther­mal units (Btu) (422 000 KJ) input capacity. Where two exit access doorways are required, one is permitted to be a fixed ladder or an alternating tread device. Exit access doorways shall be separated by a horizontal distance equal to one-half the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the room. 

[B] 
1015.4 Refrigeration machinery rooms. Machinery rooms larger than 1,000 square feet (93 m2) shall have not less than two exits or exit access doorways. Where two exit access doorways are required, one such doorway is permitted to be served by a fixed ladder or an alternating tread device. Exit access doorways shall be separated by a horizontal dis­tance equal to one-half the maximum horizontal dimension of room. 


All portions of machinery rooms shall be within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of an exit or exit access doorway. An increase in travel distance is permitted in accordance with Section 1016.1. 
Doors shall swing in the direction of egress travel, regard­less of the occupant load served. Doors shall be tight fitting and self-closing. 
[B] 1015.5 Refrigerated rooms or spaces. Rooms or spaces having a floor area larger than 1,000 square feet (93 m2), con­taining a refrigerant evaporator and maintained at a tempera­ture below 68°F (20°C), shall have access to not less than two exits or exit access doorways. 
Travel distance shall be determined as specified in Section 1016.1, but all portions of a refrigerated room or space shall be within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of an exit or exit access door­way where such rooms are not protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system. Egress is allowed through adjoin­ing refrigerated rooms or spaces. 
Exception: Where using refrigerants in quantities limited to the amounts based on the volume set forth in the Cali­fornia Mechanical Code. 
[B] 1015.6 Day care means of egress. Day care facilities, rooms or spaces where care is provided for more than 10 chil­dren that are 21/ 2 years of age or less, shall have access to not less than two exits or exit access doorways. 
1015.7 Large Family Day-care Home. Every story or base­ment ofa large family day-care home shall be provided with two exits which are remotely located from each other. Every required exit shall be of a size to permit the installation of a door not less than 32 inches (813 mm) in clear width and not less than 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) in height. A manually 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE MEANS OF EGRESS 
operated horizontal sliding door may be used as one of the two required exits. 
Where basements are used for day care purposes, one of the two required exits shall provide access directly to the exterior without entering the first story. The second exit from the basement may either pass through the story above or exit directly to the exterior. 
Rooms used for day care purposes shall not be located above the first story. 
Exception: Buildings equipped with an automatic sprin­kler system throughout and which have at least one of the required exits providing access directly to the exterior. NFPA 13R may be used in large family day-care homes. The sprinkler omissions of NFPA 13R shall not apply unless approved by the enforcing agency. 
Exit doors, including manually operated horizontal sliding doors, shall be openable from the inside without use ofa key or any special knowledge or effort. 
Tables 1021.1 and 1021.2 are not applicable to this occupancy classification. 
SECTION 1016 
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE 


[B] 
1016.1 General. Travel distance within the exit access portion of the means of egress system shall be in accordance with this section. 

[B] 
1016.2 Limitations. Exit access travel distance shall not exceed the values given in Table 1016.2. 


[B] TABLE 1016.2 
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE" 


OCCUPANCY  WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM (feet)  WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (feet)  
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1  200  250b  
R-2.1  Not Permitted  250b,c  
B  200  30Qc  
F-2, S-2, U  300  400c  
H-1  Not Permitted  75"  
H-2  Not Permitted  woe  
H-3  Not Permitted  150c  
H-4  Not Permitted  175"  
H-5  Not Permitted  200c  
I-2, 1-2.1, I-3ct, I-4  150  200c  
L  Not Permitted  20if  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 	See the following sections for modifications to exit access travel distance requirements: Section 402.8 of the California Building Code: For the distance limitation in malls. Section 404.9 of the California Building Code: For the distance limitation through an atrium space. 
Section 407.4 of the 	California Building Code: For the distance limitation in Group I-2. 
Section 408.3.10 of the California Building Code: For increased 
limitation in Group 1-3. 
(continued) 

Sections 408.6.1 and 408.8.1 of the California Building Code: For the distance limitations in Group I-3. Section 411.4 of the California Building Code: For the distance limitation in special amusement buildings. Section 1015.4: For the distance limitation in refrigeration machinery rooms. Section 1015.5: For the distance limitation in reftigerated rooms and spaces. 
II Section 1016.3: For increased limitation in Groups F-1 and S-1. 
Section 1021.2: For buildings with one exit. 
Section 1028.7: For increased limitation in assembly seating. 
Section 1028.7: For increased limitation for assembly open-air 

seating. 
Section 3103.4 of the California Building Code: For temporary structures. 
Section 3104.9 of the Califomia Building Code: For pedestrian walkways. 
b. 
Buildings equipped throughout with 	an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. See Section 903 for occupancies where automatic sprinkler systems are permitted in accordance with Section 903.3.1.2. 

c. 	
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1. 


d. Not permitted in nonsprinklered Group 1-3 occupancies. 
[B] 1016.2.1 Exterior egress balcony increase. Exit access travel distances specified in Table 1016.2 shall be increased up to an additional 100 feet (30 480 mm) pro­vided the last portion of the exit access leading to the exit occurs on an exterior egress balcony constructed in accor­dance with Section 1019. The length of such balcony shall not be less than the amount of the increase taken. 
II 	1016.2.2 Group F-1 and S-1 increase. The maximum exit access travel distance shall be 400 feet ( 122 m) in Group F-I or S-I occupancies where all ofthe following are met: 
I. 	The portion of the building classified as Group F-I or S-I is limited to one story in height, 
2. 	
The minimum height from the finished floor to the bottom of the ceiling or roof slab or deck is 24 feet (73I5 mm), and 

3. 	
The building is equipped throughout with an auto­matic fire sprinkler system in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3.I.I. 


[B] 1016.3 Measurement. Exit access travel distance shall be measured from the most remote point within a story along the natural and unobstructed path of horizontal and verti­cal egress travel to the entrance to an exit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
In open parking garages, exit access travel distance is permitted to be measured to the closest riser of an exit access stairway or the closest slope of an exit access ramp. 

2. 	
In outdoor facilities with open exit access compo­nents, exit access travel distance is permitted to be measured to the closest riser of an exit access stair­way or the closest slope of an exit access ramp. 


[B] 1016.3.1 Exit access stairways and ramps. Travel distance on exit access stairways or ramps shall be included in the exit access travel distance measurement. The measurement along stairways shall be made on a plane parallel and tangent to the stair tread nosings in the center of the stair and landings. The measurement along ramps shall be made on the walking surface in the center of the ramp and landings. 
SECTION 1 017 
AISLES 


[B] 1017.1 General. Aisles and aisle accessways serving as a portion of the exit access in the means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section. Aisles or aisle accessways shall be provided from all occupied portions of the exit access which contain seats, tables, furnishings, dis­plays and similar fixtures or equipment. The required width of aisles shall be unobstructed. 
Exception: Encroachments complying with Section 1005.7. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.06(a)] Bonding of Chairs and Spacing of Tables. 
(a) Bonding of chairs. In every Group A and Group E occupancy, all loose seats, folding chairs or similar seat­ing facilities that are not fixed to the floor shall be bonded together in groups ofnot less than three. 
Exceptions: 
(I) 
When not more than 200 such seats, chairs or facil­ities are provided, bonding thereof may be deleted. 

(2) 
The bonding of chairs shall not be required when tables are provided, as when the occupancy is used for dining or similar purposes. 

(
3) Upon approval of the enforcing agency, the bond­ing of chairs shall not be required when the placement and location of such chairs does not obstruct any required exit or any line ofegress toward required exits and does not constitute afire hazard as defined in Cali­fornia Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Sec­tion 3.14. 


[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.06(b )] Bonding ofChairs and Spacing of Tables. 
(b) Spacing of Tables. In occupancies having rectangular conference or banquet-type tables, such tables shall be placed not less than 54 inches apart and not less than 36 inches from walls. 
[B] 
1017.2 Aisles in assembly spaces. Aisles and aisle accessways serving a room or space used for assembly pur­poses shall comply with Section 1028. 

[B] 
1017.3 Aisles in Groups B and M. In Group B and M occupancies, the minimum clear aisle width shall be deter­mined by Section 1005.1 for the occupant load served, but shall not be less than 36 inches (914 mm). 


Exception: Nonpublic aisles serving less than 50 people and not required to be accessible by Chapter llA or liB of the California Building Code need not exceed 28 inches (711 mm) in width. 

[B] 
1017.4 Aisle accessways in Group M. An aisle access­way shall be provided on at least one side of each element within the merchandise pad. The minimum clear width for an aisle accessway not required to be accessible shall be 30 inches (762 mm). The required clear width of the aisle accessway shall be measured perpendicular to the elements and merchandise within the merchandise pad. The 30-inch (762 mm) minimum clear width shall be maintained to pro­vide a path to an adjacent aisle or aisle accessway. The com­mon path of egress travel shall not exceed 30 feet (9144 mm) from any point in the merchandise pad. 

Exception: For areas serving not more than 50 occupants, the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet (22 860 mm). 


[B] 
1017.5 Aisles in other than assembly spaces and Groups B and M. In other than rooms or spaces used for assembly purposes and Group B and M occupancies, the min­imum clear aisle width shall be determined by Section 1005.1 for the occupant load served, but shall not be less than 36 inches (914 mm). 


SECTION 1018 
CORRIDORS 



[B] 1018.1 Construction. Corridors shall be fire-resistance rated in accordance with Table 1018.1. The corridor walls required to be fire-resistance rated shall comply with Section 708 of the California Building Code for fire partitions. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	A fire-resistance rating is not required for corridors in an occupancy in Group E where each room that is used for instruction has at least one door opening directly to the exterior and rooms for assembly pur­poses have at least one-half of the required means of egress doors opening directly to the exterior. Exte-
MEANS OF EGRESS 
rior doors specified in this exception are required to be at ground level. 
2. 	
A fire-resistance rating is not required for corridors contained within a dwelling or sleeping unit in an occupancy in Group R. 

3. 	
A fire-resistance rating is not required for corridors in open parking garages. 

4. 	
A fire-resistance rating is not required for con·idors in an occupancy in Group B which is a space requir­ing only a single means of egress complying with Section 1015.1. 

5. 	
Corridors adjacent to the exterior walls of buildings shall be permitted to have unprotected openings on unrated exterior walls where unrated walls are per­mitted by Table 602 of the California Building Code and unprotected openings are permitted by Table 


705.8 of the California Building Code. 
6. 	Afire-resistance rating is not required for corridors within suites in a Group I-2 occupancy provided with an automatic sprinkler system throughout and constructed in accordance with Section 407.4.3.5 or 
407.4.3.6 ofthe California Building Code. 

[B] 
1018.2 Width. The minimum width of corridors speci­fied in Table 1018.2 shall be as determined in Section 1005.1. 

[B] 
1018.3 Obstruction. The required width of conidors shall be unobstructed. 

Exception: Encroachments complying with Section 1005.7. 

[B] 
1018.4 Dead ends. Where more than one exit or exit access doorway is required, the exit access shall be arranged such that there are no dead ends in corridors more than 20 feet (6096 mm) in length. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	In occupancies in Group 1-3 of Occupancy Condi­tion 2, 3 or 4 (see Section 308.5), the dead end in a corridor shall not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm). 

[8] TABLE 1018.1 
CORRIDOR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING 

OCCUPANCY  OCCUPANT LOAD SERVED BY CORRIDOR  REQUIRED FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING (hours)  
Without sprinkler system  With sprinkler system'  
H-1, H-2, H-3  All  Not Permitted  1  
H-4, H-5  Greater than 30  Not Permitted  1  
Ad, B, F, M, S, U  Greater than 30  1  0  
R-1, R-2, R-3, R3.1, R-4  Greater than 10  Not Permitted  1  
I-2", I-4  Greater than 6  Not Permitted  1  
I-3, R-2.1  Greater than 6  Not Pennitted  1b  
E  Greater than 10  1  1  

a. 
For requirements for occupancies in Group I-2, see Sections 407.2 and 407.3 of the California Building Code. 

b. 
For a reduction in the fire-resistance rating for occupancies in Group I-3, see Sections 408.8.1.2 and 408.8 of the California Building Code. 


II 

c. Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 where allowed. 
d. [SFM} See Section1028. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	223 
[B] TABLE 1018.2 MINIMUM CORRIDOR WIDTH 
OCCUPANCY  WIDTH (minimum)  
Any facilities not listed below  44 inches  
Access to and utilization of mechanical, plumbing or electricalsystems or equipment  24 inches  
With a required occupancy capacity less than 50  36 inches  
Within a dwelling unit  36 inches  
In Group E with a corridor having a required capacity of 100 or more  72 inches  
In corridors and areas serving gurney traffic in occupancies where patients receive outpa­tient medical care, which causes the patient to be incapable of self-preservation  72 inches  
Group I-2 in areas where required for bed movement  96 inches  
Corridors in Group 1-2 and 1-3 occupancies serving any area caring for one or more non-ambulatory persons.  96 inches  

For SI: I inch= 25.4 mm. 
2. 	
In occupancies in Groups B, E, F, M, R-1, R-2, R­2.1, R-4, S and U, where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, the length of the dead-end corridors shall not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm). 

3. 	
A dead-end corridor shall not be limited in length where the length of the dead-end corridor is less than 2.5 times the least width of the dead-end corri­dor. 


[B) 1018.5 Air movement in corridors. Corridors shall not serve as supply, return, exhaust, relief or ventilation air ducts. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Use of a corridor as a source of makeup air for exhaust systems in rooms that open directly onto such corridors, including toilet rooms, bathrooms, dressing rooms, smoking lounges and janitor clos­ets, shall be permitted, provided that each such cor­ridor is directly supplied with outdoor air at a rate greater than the rate of makeup air taken from the cotTidor. 

2. 	
Where located within a dwelling unit, the use of cor­ridors for conveying return air shall not be prohib­ited. 

3. 	
Where located within tenant spaces of 1,000 square feet (93 m2) or less in area, utilization of corridors for conveying return air is permitted. 

4. 	
Incidental air movement from pressurized rooms within health care facilities, provided that the corri­dor is not the primary source of supply or return to the room. 


5. 	For health care facilities under the jurisdiction of the Office ofStatewide Health Planning and Devel­opment (OSHPD), see the California Mechanical Code. 
[B) 1018.5.1 Corridor ceiling. Use of the space between the cotTidor ceiling and the floor or roof structure above as a return air plenum is permitted for one or more of the fol­lowing conditions: 
1. 	The corridor is not required to be of fire-resistance­rated construction; 
2. 	
The conidor is separated from the plenum by fire­resistance-rated construction; 

3. 	
The air-handling system serving the corridor is shut down upon activation of the air-handling unit smoke detectors required by the California Mechanical Code; 

4. 	
The air-handling system serving the corridor is shut down upon detection of sprinkler waterflow where the building is equipped throughout with an auto­matic sprinkler system; or 

5. 	
The space between the corridor ceiling and the floor or roof structure above the corridor is used as a com­ponent of an approved engineered smoke control system. 


[B) 1018.6 Corridor continuity. Fire-resistance-rated coni­dors shall be continuous from the point of entry to an exit, and shall not be interrupted by intervening rooms. Where the path of egress travel within a fire-resistance-rated corridor to the exit includes travel along unenclosed exit access stair­ways or ramps, the fire resistance-rating shall be continuous for the length of the stairway or ramp and for the length of the connecting corridor on the adjacent floor leading to the exit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Foyers, lobbies or reception rooms constructed as required for corridors shall not be construed as inter­vening rooms. 
2. [SFM] In fully sprinklered office buildings, corridors may lead through enclosed elevator lobbies if all areas of the building have access to at least one required exit without passing through the elevator lobby. 
SECTION 1019 
EGRESS BALCONIES 


[B) 1019.1 General. Balconies used for egress purposes shall conform to the same requirements as corridors for width, headroom, dead ends and projections. 
[B) 1019.2 Wall separation. Exterior egress balconies shall be separated from the interior of the building by walls and opening protectives as required for corridors. 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
Exception: Separation is not required where the exterior egress balcony is served by at least two stairs and a dead­end travel condition does not require travel past an unpro­tected opening to reach a stair. 

[B] 
1019.3 Openness. The long side of an egress balcony shall be at least 50 percent open, and the open area above the guards shall be so distributed as to minimize the accumula­tion of smoke or toxic gases. 

[B] 
1019.4 Location. Exterior egress balconies shall have a minimum fire separation distance of 10 feet (3048 mm) mea­sured from the exterior edge of the egress balcony to adjacent lot lines and from other buildings on the same lot unless the adjacent building exterior walls and openings are protected in accordance with Section 705 of the California Building Code based on fire separation distance. 


SECTION 1 020 EXITS 

[B] 
1020.1 General. Exits shall comply with Sections 1020 through 1026 and the applicable requirements of Sections 1003 through 1013. An exit shall not be used for any purpose that interferes with its function as a means of egress. Once a given level of exit protection is achieved, such level of pro­tection shall not be reduced until arrival at the exit discharge. 

[B] 
1020.2 Exterior exit doors. Buildings or structures used for human occupancy shall have at least one exterior door that meets the requirements of Section 1008.1.1. 

[B] 
1020.2.1 Detailed requirements. Exterior exit doors shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 1008.1. 

[B] 
1020.2.2 Arrangement. Exterior exit doors shall lead directly to the exit discharge or the public way. 



SECTION 1 021 NUMBER OF EXITS 

> 
[B] 1021.1 General. Each story and occupied roof shall have the minimum number of independent exits, or access to exits, as specified in Table 1021.1. A single exit or access to a sin­gle exit shall be permitted in accordance with Section 1021.2. 
The required number of exits, or exit access stairways or ramps providing access to exits, from any story shall be main­
> tained until arrival at grade or a public way. 
[B] TABLE 1021.1 
MINIMUM NUMBER OF EXITS OR 
ACCESS TO EXITS PER STORY 


OCCUPANT LOAD PER STORY  MINIMUM NUMBER OF EXITS OR ACCESS TO EXITS FROM STORY  
1-500  2  
501-1,000  3  
More than 1,000  4  

[B] 1021.2 Single exits. A single exit or access to a single exit shall be permitted from any story or occupied roof, pro­vided one of the following conditions exists: 
1. 	
The occupant load, number of dwelling units and exit access travel distance does not exceed the values in Table 1021.2(1) or 1021.2(2). 

2. 	
Rooms, areas and spaces complying with Section 1015.1 with exits that discharge directly to the exterior at the level of exit discharge are permitted to have one exit or access to a single exit. 

3. 	
Group R-3 occupancy buildings shall be permitted to have one exit where each individual story complies with Table 1021.2(1). 

4. 
Parking 	garages where vehicles are mechanically parked shall be permitted to have one exit or access to a single exit. 

5. 	
Group R-3 and R-4 congregate residences shall be per­mitted to have one exit where each individual story complies with Table 1021.2(1). 

6. 	
Individual single-story or multiple-story dwelling units shall be permitted to have a single exit or access to a single exit from the dwelling unit provided that all of the following criteria are met: 


6.1. The dwelling unit complies with Section 1015.1 as a space with one means of egress; and 
6.2. Either the exit from the dwelling unit discharges directly to the exterior at the level of exit dis­charge, or the exit access outside the dwelling unit's entrance door provides access to not less than two approved independent exits. 

[B] 1021.2.1 Mixed occupancies. Where one exit, or exit access stairway or ramp providing access to exits at other stories, is permitted to serve individual stories, mixed occupancies shall be permitted to be served by single exits provided each individual occupancy complies with the applicable requirements of Table 1021.2(1) or Table 
< 
< 

[B] TABLE 1021.2(1) 
STORIES WITH ONE EXIT OR ACCESS TO ONE EXIT FOR R-2, R-3 AND R-4 OCCUPANCIES 

STORY  OCCUPANCY  MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS  MAXIMUM EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE  
Basement, first, second or third story above grade plan  R-2a, b R-3", R-4  4 dwelling units NA  125 feet NA  
Fourth story and above  R-3", R-4  NA  125feet  

For SI: 1 foot =304.8 mm. NA-Not Applicable. 
a. 	
Buildings classified as Group R-2 or R-3 equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and provided with emergency escape and rescue openings in accordance with Section 1029. 

b. 
This table is used for R-2 occupancies consisting of dwelling units. For R-2 occupancies consisting of sleeping units, use Table 1021.2(2). 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
> 

1021.2(2) for that occupancy. Where applicable, cumula­tive occupant loads from adjacent occupancies shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of Section 1004.1. 
In each story of a mixed occupancy building, the maxi­mum number of occupants served by a single exit shall be such that the sum of the ratios of the calculated number of occupants of the space divided by the allowable number of occupants indicated in Table 1012.3(1) for each occu­pancy does not exceed one. Where dwelling units are located on a story with other occupancies, the actual num­ber of dwelling units divided by 4 plus the ratio from the other occupancy does not exceed one. 
1021.2.2 Exits from specific space. Exits serving specific 
spaces or areas need not be accessed by the remainder of 
the story when all ofthe following are met: 
1. 	
The number of exits from the entire story complies with Section 1021.1; 

2. 	
The access to exits from each individual space in the story complies with Section 1015.1; and 

3. 	
All spaces within each portion of a story shall have access to the minimum number of approved inde­pendent exits, based on the occupant load of that portion ofthe story but not less than two exits. 


[B] 1021.3 Vehicular ramps. Vehicular ramps shall not be considered as an exit access ramp unless pedestrian facilities are provided. 
SECTION 1022 
INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS 

[B] 1022.1 General. Interior exit stairways and interior exit ramps serving as an exit component in a means of egress sys­tem shall comply with the requirements of this section. Inte­rior exit stairways and ramps shall lead directly to the exterior of the building or shall be extended to the exterior of the building with an exit passageway conforming to the require­ments of Section 1023, except as permitted in Section 1027.1. An interior exit stairway or ramp shall not be used for any purpose other than as a means of egress. 
[B] 1022.2 Construction. Enclosures for interior exit stair­ways and ramps shall be constructed as fire barriers in accor­dance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. Interior exit stairway and ramp enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rat­ing of not less than 2 hours where connecting four stories or more and not less than 1 hour where connecting less than four stories. The number of stories connected by the interior exit stairways or ramps shall include any basements, but not any mezzanines. Interior exit stairways and ramps shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than the floor assembly pene­trated, but need not exceed 2 hours. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Interior exit stairways and ramps in Group 1-3 occupan­cies in accordance with the provisions of Section 
408.3.8 of the California Building Code. 
2. 	Fixed guideway transit stations, constructed in accor­dance with Section 433 of the California Building Code. 
[B] 1022.3 Termination. Interior exit stairways and ramps shall terminate at an exit discharge or a public way. 
Exception: Interior exit stairways and ramps shall be per­mitted to terminate at an exit passageway complying with Section 1023, provided the exit passageway terminates at an exit discharge or a public way. 
[B] 1022.3.1 Extension. Where interior exit stairways and ramps are extended to an exit discharge or a public way by an exit passageway, the interior exit stairway and ramp shall be separated from the exit passageway by a fire barrier constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or a horizontal assembly con­
[B) TABLE 1021.2(2) 
STORIES WITH ONE EXIT OR ACCESS TO ONE EXIT FOR OTHER OCCUPANCIES 

STORY  OCCUPANCY  MAXIMUM OCCUPANTS PER STORY  MAXIMUM EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE  
A, Bb, E, Fb, M, U, Sb  49 occupants  75 feet  
First story above or  H-2, H-3  3 occupants  25 feet  
below grade plane base­ H-4, H-5, I, R-1, R-2•·c, R-4  10 occupants  75 feet  
ment  I-2, I-2.1  7 occupants  50 feet  
s  29 occupants  100 feet  
Second story above grade plan  B,F,M,S  29 occupants  75 feet  
Third story above grade plane and higher  NP  NA  NA  

For SI: I foot =304.8 mm. NP-Not Permitted. NA-Not Applicable. 
a. 	
Buildings classified as Group R-2 equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and provided with emergency escape and rescue openings in accordance with Section 1029. 

b. 	
Group B, F and S occupancies in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 shall have a maximum travel distance of I 00 feet. 

c. 
This table is used for R-2 occupancies consisting of sleeping units. For R-2 occupancies consisting of dwelling units, use Table 1021.2(1). 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
r 

MEANS OF EGRESS 
structed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. The fire-resistance rating shall be at least equal to that required for the interior exit stairway and ramp. A fire door assembly complying with Section 
716.5 of the California Building Code shall be installed in the fire barrier to provide a means of egress from the inte­rior exit stairway and ramp to the exit passageway. Open­ings in the fire barrier other than the fire door assembly are prohibited. Penetrations of the fire barrier are prohibited. 
Exception: Penetrations of the fire barrier in accor­dance with Section 1022.5 shall be permitted. 

[B] 1022.4 Openings. Interior exit stairway and ramp open­ing protectives shall be in accordance with the requirements of Section 716 of the California Building Code. 
Openings in interior exit stairways and ramps other than unprotected exterior openings shall be limited to those neces­sary for exit access to the enclosure from normally occupied spaces and for egress from the enclosure. 
Elevators shall not open into interior exit stairways and ramps. 
[B] 1022.5 Penetrations. Penetrations into and openings through interior exit stairways and ramps are prohibited except for required exit doors, equipment and ductwork nec­essary for independent ventilation or pressurization, sprinkler piping, standpipes, electrical raceway for fire department communication systems and electrical raceway serving the interior exit stairway and ramp and terminating at a steel box not exceeding 16 square inches (0.010 m2). Such penetrations shall be protected in accordance with Section 714 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. There shall be no penetrations or com­municating openings, whether protected or not, between adjacent interior exit stairways and ramps. 
Exception: Membrane penetrations shall be permitted on the outside of the interior exit stairway and ramp. Such penetrations shall be protected in accordance with Section 
714.3.2 of the California Building Code. 

[B] 1022.6 Ventilation. Equipment and ductwork for interior exit stairway and ramp ventilation as permitted by Section 1022.5 shall comply with one of the following items: 
1. 	
Such equipment and ductwork shall be located exterior to the building and shall be directly connected to the interior exit stairway and ramp by ductwork enclosed in construction as required for shafts. 

2. 	
Where such equipment and ductwork is located within the interior exit stairway and ramp, the intake air shall be taken directly from the outdoors and the exhaust air shall be discharged directly to the outdoors, or such air shall be conveyed through ducts enclosed in construc­tion as required for shafts. 

3. 	
Where located within the building, such equipment and ductwork shall be separated from the remainder of the building, including other mechanical equipment, with construction as required for shafts. 



In each case, openings into the fire-resistance-rated con­struction shall be limited to those needed for maintenance and operation and shall be protected by opening protectives in 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
accordance with Section 716 of the California Building Code for shaft enclosures. 
The interior exit stairway and ramp ventilation systems shall be independent of other building ventilation systems. 
[B] 1022.7 Interior exit stairway and ramp exterior walls. 
Exterior walls of the interior exit stairway and ramp shall comply with the requirements of Section 705 of the Califor­nia Building Code for exterior walls. Where nonrated walls or unprotected openings enclose the exterior of the stairway and the walls or openings are exposed by other parts of the build­ing at an angle of less than 180 degrees (3.14 rad), the build­ing exterior walls within 10 feet (3048 mm) horizontally of a nonrated wall or unprotected opening shall have a fire-resis­tance rating of not less than 1 hour. Openings within such exterior walls shall be protected by opening protectives hav­ing a fire protection rating of not less than 3hour. This con­
/4 

struction shall extend vertically from the ground to a point 10 feet (3048 mm) above the topmost landing of the stairway or to the roof line, whichever is lower. 
[B] 
1022.8 Discharge identification. An interior exit stair­way and ramp shall not continue below its level of exit dis­charge unless an approved barrier is provided at the level of exit discharge to prevent persons from unintentionally con­tinuing into levels below. Directional exit signs shall be pro­vided as specified in Section 1011. 

[B] 
1022.9 Stairway identification signs. A sign shall be provided at each floor landing in an interior exit stairway and ramp connecting more than three stories designating the floor level, the terminus of the top and bottom of the interior exit stairway and ramp and the identification of the stair or ramp. The signage shall also state the story of, and the direc­tion to, the exit discharge and the availability of roof access from the interior exit stairway and ramp for the fire depart­ment. The sign shall be located 5 feet (1524 mm) above the floor landing in a position that is readily visible when the 


doors are in the open and closed positions. 	< 
In addition to the stairway identification sign, raised char­acters and braille floor identification signs that comply with Chapter 11B shall be located at the landing of each floor level, placed adjacent to the door on the latch side, in all enclosed stairways in buildings two or more stories in height to identify the floor level. At the exit discharge level, the sign shall include a raised five pointed star located to the left of the identifying floor level. The outside diameter of the star shall be the same as the height ofthe raised characters. 
[B] 1022.9.1 Signage requirements. Stairway identifica­tion signs shall comply with all of the following require­ments: 
1. 	
The signs shall be a minimum size of 18 inches ( 457 mm) by 12 inches (305 mm). 

2. 	
The letters designating the identification of the inte­rior exit stairway and ramp shall be a minimum of 11inches (38 mm) in height. 


/2 
3. 	The number designating the floor level shall be a minimum of 5 inches (127 mm) in height with %­inch ( 19 mm) strokes and located in the center of the sign. The mezzanine levels shall have the letter "M" 

> 
> 
> 
> 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
preceding the floor level. basement levels shall have the letter "B" preceding the floor number. 

4. 	All other lettering and numbers shall be a minimum of 1 inch (25 mm) in height. 
5. 	
The stairway's upper terminus, such as ROOF ACCESS or NO ROOF ACCESS, shall be placed under the stairway identification in l-inch-high (25 mm) block lettering with 1/[inch (6 mm) strokes. 

6. 	
The lower and upper terminus of the stairway shall be placed at the bottom of the sign in l-inch-high (25 mm) block lettering with 114-inch (6 mm) strokes. 


7. 	
Characters and their background shall have a non­glare finish. Characters shall contrast with their background, with either light characters on a dark background or dark characters on a light back­ground. 

8. 	
When signs required by Section 1022.9 are installed in the interior exit stairways and ramps of buildings subject to Section 1024, the signs shall be made of the same materials as required by Section 1024.4. 


[B] 1022.10 Smokeproof enclosures and pressurized stair­ways and ramps. Where required by Section 403.5.4 or 
405.7.2 of the California Building Code, interior exit stair­ways and ramps shall be smokeproof enclosures in accor­dance with Section 909.20 of the California Building Code. 
[B] 1022.10.1 Termination and extension. A smoke-proof enclosure shall terminate at an exit discharge or a public way. The smokeproof enclosure shall be permitted to be extended by an exit passageway in accordance with Section 1022.3. The exit passageway shall be without openings other than the fire door assembly required by Section 1022.3.1 and those necessary for egress from the exit passageway. The exit passageway shall be separated from the remainder of the building by 2-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the Califor­nia Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Openings in the exit passageway serving a smokeproof enclosure are permitted where the exit passageway is protected and pressurized in the same manner as the smokeproof enclosure, and openings are protected as required for access from other floors. 

2. 	
The fire barrier separating the smokeproof enclo­sure from the exit passageway is not required, provided the exit passageway is protected and pressurized in the same manner as the smoke­proof enclosure. 

3. 	
A smokeproof enclosure shall be permitted to egress through areas on the level of exit discharge or vestibules as permitted by Section 1027. 



[B] 1022.10.2 Enclosure access. Access to the stairway within a smokeproof enclosure shall be by way of a vesti­bule or an open exterior balcony. 
SECTION 1 023 
EXIT PASSAGEWAYS 


[B] 
1023.1 Exit passageway. Exit passageways serving as an exit component in a means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section. An exit passageway shall not be used for any purpose other than as a means of egress. 

[B] 
1023.2 Width. The minimum width of exit passageways shall be determined as specified in Section 1005.1 but such width shall not be less than 44 inches (1118 mm), except that exit passageways serving an occupant load of less than 50 shall not be less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width. The required width of exit passageways shall be unobstructed. 


Exception: Encroachments complying with Section 1005.7. 
The clear width of exit passageways in a Group I-2 occupancy used for the movement ofbeds and litters shall be 44 inches ( 1118 mm) minimum. 
[B] 
1023.3 Construction. Exit passageway enclosures shall have walls, floors and ceilings of not less than a 1-hour fire­resistance rating, and not less than that required for any con­necting interior exit stairway or ramp. Exit passageways shall be constructed as fire barriers in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies con­structed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both. 

[B] 
1023.4 Termination. Exit passageways on the level of exit discharge shall terminate at an exit discharge. Exit pas­sageways on other levels shall terminate at an exit. 

[B] 
1023.5 Openings and penetrations. Exit passageway opening protectives shall be in accordance with the require­ments of Section 716 of the California Building Code. 


Except as permitted in Section 402.8.7 of the California Building Code, openings in exit passageways other than exte­rior openings shall be limited to those necessary for exit access to the exit passageway from normally occupied spaces and for egress from the exit passageway. 
Where an interior exit stairway or ramp is extended to an exit discharge or a public way by an exit passageway, the exit passageway shall also comply with Section 1022.3.1. 
Elevators shall not open into an exit passageway. 
[B] 1023.6 Penetrations. Penetrations into and openings through an exit passageway are prohibited except for required exit doors, equipment and ductwork necessary for indepen­dent pressurization, sprinkler piping, standpipes, electrical raceway for fire department communication and electrical raceway serving the exit passageway and terminating at a steel box not exceeding 16 square inches (0.010 m2). Such penetrations shall be protected in accordance with Section 714 of the California Building Code. There shall be no pene­trations or communicating openings, whether protected or not, between adjacent exit passageways. 
Exception: Membrane penetrations shall be permitted on the outside of the exit passageway. Such penetrations shall be protected in accordance with Section 714.3.2 of the 
California Building Code. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 1024 
LUMINOUS EGRESS PATH MARKINGS 


[B] 
1024.1 General. Approved luminous egress path mark­ings delineating the exit path shall be provided in high-rise buildings of Group A, B, E, I, M, and R-1 occupancies in accordance with Sections 1024.1 through 1024.5. 

Exception: Luminous egress path markings shall not be required on the level of exit discharge in lobbies that serve as part of the exit path in accordance with Section 1027.1, Exception 1. 


[B] 
1024.2 Markings within exit components. Egress path markings shall be provided in interior exit stairways, interior exit ramps and exit passageways, in accordance with Sections 1024.2.1 through 1024.2.6. 


• 
[B] 1024.2.1 Steps. A solid and continuous stripe shall be applied to the horizontal leading edge of each step and shall extend for the full length of the step. Outlining stripes shall have a minimum horizontal width of 1 inch (25 mm) and a maximum width of 2 inches (51 mm). The leading edge of the stripe shall be placed at a maximum of 
inch (13 mm) from the leading edge of the step and the 
1/ 2 
stripe shall not overlap the leading edge of the step by not more than 1inch (13 mm) down the vertical face of the
/2 
step. 
Exception: The minimum width of 1 inch (25 mm) shall not apply to outlining stripes listed in accordance with UL 1994. 
[B] 
1024.2.2 Landings. The leading edge of landings shall be marked with a stripe consistent with the dimensional requirements for steps. 

[B] 
1024.2.3 Handrails. All handrails and handrail exten­sions shall be marked with a solid and continuous stripe having a minimum width of 1 inch (25 mm). The stripe shall be placed on the top surface of the handrail for the entire length of the handrail, including extensions and newel post caps. Where handrails or handrail extensions bend or tum comers, the stripe shall not have a gap of more than 4 inches (102 mm). 

Exception: The minimum width of 1 inch (25 mm) shall not apply to outlining stripes listed in accordance with UL 1994. 

[B] 
1024.2.4 Perimeter demarcation lines. Stair landings and other floor areas within interior exit stairways, interior exit ramps and exit passageways, with the exception of the sides of steps, shall be provided with solid and continuous demarcation lines on the floor or on the walls or a combi­nation of both. The stripes shall be 1 to 2 inches (25 mm to 51 mm) wide with interruptions not exceeding 4 inches (102 mm). 


Exception: The minimum width of 1 inch (25 mm) shall not apply to outlining stripes listed in accordance with UL 1994. 
[B] 1024.2.4.1 Floor-mounted demarcation lines. 
Perimeter demarcation lines shall be placed within 4 inches (102 mm) of the wall and shall extend to within 2 inches (51 mm) of the markings on the leading edge 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
of landings. The demarcation lines shall continue across the floor in front of all doors. 
Exception: Demarcation lines shall not extend in front of exit discharge doors that lead out of an exit and through which occupants must travel to com­plete the exit path. 
[B] 1024.2.4.2 Wall-mounted demarcation lines. 
Perimeter demarcation lines shall be placed on the wall with the bottom edge of the stripe no more than 4 inches (102 mm) above the finished floor. At the top or bottom of the stairs, demarcation lines shall drop verti­cally to the floor within 2 inches (51 mm) of the step or landing edge. Demarcation lines on walls shall transi­tion vertically to the floor and then extend across the floor where a line on the floor is the only practical method of outlining the path. Where the wall line is broken by a door, demarcation lines on walls shall con­tinue across the face of the door or transition to the floor and extend across the floor in front of such door. 
Exception: Demarcation lines shall not extend in front of exit discharge doors that lead out of an exit and through which occupants must travel to com­plete the exit path. 

[B] 
1024.2.4.3 Transition. Where a wall-mounted demarcation line transitions to a floor-mounted demar­cation line, or vice-versa, the wall-mounted demarca­tion line shall drop vertically to the floor to meet a complimentary extension of the floor-mounted demar­cation line, thus forming a continuous marking. 


[B] 
1024.2.5 Obstacles. Obstacles at or below 6 feet 6 inches (1981 mm) in height and projecting more than 4 inches (102 mm) into the egress path shall be outlined with markings no less than 1 inch (25 mm) in width com­prised of a pattern of alternating equal bands, of lumines­cent luminous material and black, with the alternating bands no more than 2 inches (51 mm) thick and angled at 45 degrees. Obstacles shall include, but are not limited to, standpipes, hose cabinets, wall projections, and restricted height areas. However, such markings shall not conceal any required information or indicators including but not limited to instructions to occupants for the use of stand­pipes. 

[B] 
1024.2.6 Doors within the exit path. Doors through which occupants must pass in order to complete the exit path shall be provided with markings complying with Sec­tions 1024.2.6.1 through 1024.2.6.3. 

[B] 
1024.2.6.1 Emergency exit symbol. The doors shall be identified by a low-location luminous emer­gency exit symbol complying with NFP A 170. The exit symbol shall be a minimum of 4 inches (102 mm) in height and shall be mounted on the door, centered hori­zontally, with the top of the symbol no higher than 18 inches ( 457 mm) above the finished floor. 

[B] 
1024.2.6.2 Door hardware markings. Door hard­ware shall be marked with no less than 16 square inches ( 406 mm2) of luminous material. This marking shall be located behind, immediately adjacent to, or on the door 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
handle or escutcheon. Where a panic bar is installed, such material shall be no less than 1 inch (25 mm) wide for the entire length of the actuating bar or touch pad. 
[B] 
1024.2.6.3 Door frame markings. The top and sides of the door frame shall be marked with a solid and continuous l-inch-to 2-inch-wide (25 mm to 51 mm) stripe. Where the door molding does not provide suffi­cient flat surface on which to locate the stripe, the stripe shall be permitted to be located on the wall surrounding the frame. 

[B] 
1024.3 Uniformity. Placement and dimensions of mark­ings shall be consistent and uniform throughout the same enclosure. 

[B] 
1024.4 Self-luminous and photoluminescent. Luminous egress path markings shall be permitted to be made of any material, including paint, provided that an electrical charge is not required to maintain the required luminance. Such materi­als shall include, but not be limited to, self-luminous materi­als and photoluminescent materials. Materials shall comply with either: 


1. 	
UL 1994; or 

2. 	
ASTM E 2072, except that the charging source shall be 1 footcandle ( 11 lux) of fluorescent illumination for 60 minutes, and the minimum luminance shall be 30 mili­candelas per square meter at 10 minutes and 5 milican­delas per square meter after 90 minutes. 


[B] 1024.5 Illumination. Where photoluminescent exit path markings are installed, they shall be provided with the mini­mum means of egress illumination required by Section 1006 for at least 60 minutes prior to periods when the building is occupied. 
SECTION 1025 
HORIZONTAL EXITS 


[B] 1025.1 Horizontal exits. Horizontal exits serving as an exit in a means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section. A horizontal exit shall not serve as the only exit from a portion of a building, and where two or more exits are required, not more than one-half of the total number of exits or total exit width shall be horizontal exits. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Horizontal exits are permitted to comprise two­thirds of the required exits from any building or floor area for occupancies in Group I-2. 

2. 	
Horizontal exits are permitted to comprise 100 percent of the exits required for occupancies in Group I-3. At least 6 square feet (0.6 m2) of accessible space per occupant shall be provided on each side of the horizon­tal exit for the total number of people in adjoining compartments. 


[B] 1025.2 Separation. The separation between buildings or refuge areas connected by a horizontal exit shall be provided by a fire wall complying with Section 706 of the California Building Code; or it shall be provided by a fire barrier com­plying with Section 707 of the California Building Code or a horizontal assembly complying with Section 711 of the Cali­fornia Building Code, or both. The minimum fire-resistance rating of the separation shall be 2 hours. Opening protectives in horizontal exits shall also comply with Section 716 of the California Building Code. Duct and air transfer openings in a fire wall or fire barrier that serves as a horizontal exit shall also comply with Section 717 of the California Building Code. The horizontal exit separation shall extend vertically through all levels of the building unless floor assemblies have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours with no unpro­tected openings. 
Exception: A fire-resistance rating is not required at hori­zontal exits between a building area and an above-grade pedestrian walkway constructed in accordance with Sec­tion 3104 of the California Building Code, provided that the distance between connected buildings is more than 20 feet (6096 mm). 
Horizontal exits constructed as fire barriers shall be con­tinuous from exterior wall to exterior wall so as to divide completely the floor served by the horizontal exit. 
[B] 1025.3 Opening protectives. Fire doors in hmizontal exits shall be self-closing or automatic-closing when acti­vated by a smoke detector in accordance with Section 
716.5.9.3 of the California Building Code. Doors, where located in a cross-corridor condition, shall be automatic-clos­ing by activation of a smoke detector installed in accordance with Section 716.5.9.3 of the California Building Code. 
[B] 1025.4 Capacity of refuge area. The refuge area of a horizontal exit shall be a space occupied by the same tenant or a public area and each such refuge area shall be adequate to accommodate the original occupant load of the refuge area plus the occupant load anticipated from the adjoining com­partment. The anticipated occupant load from the adjoining compartment shall be based on the capacity of the horizontal exit doors entering the refuge area. The capacity of the refuge area shall be computed based on a net floor area allowance of 3 square feet (0.2787 m2) for each occupant to be accommo­dated therein. 
Exception: The net floor area allowable per occupant shall be as follows for the indicated occupancies: 
1. 	
Six square feet (0.6 m2) per occupant for occupan­cies in Group I-3. 

2. 	
Fifteen square feet (1.4 m2) per occupant for ambu­latory occupancies in Group I-2. 

3. 	
Thirty square feet (2.8 m2) per occupant for nonam­bulatory occupancies in Group I-2. 


The refuge area into which a horizontal exit leads shall be provided with exits adequate to meet the occupant require­ments of this chapter, but not including the added occupant load imposed by persons entering it through horizontal exits from other areas. In other than Group /-3 occupancies, at least one refuge area exit shall lead directly to the exterior or to an interior exit stairway or ramp. 
Exception: The adjoining compartment shall not be required to have a stairway or door leading directly out­side, provided the refuge area into which a horizontal exit leads has stairways or doors leading directly outside and are so arranged that egress shall not require the occupants to return through the compartment from which egress orig­inates. 
SECTION 1 026 EXTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS 

[B] 
1026.1 Exterior exit stairways and ramps. Exterior exit stairways and ramps serving as an element of a required means of egress shall comply with this section. 

[B] 
1026.2 Use in a means of egress. Exterior exit stairways shall not be used as an element of a required means of egress for Group I-2 occupancies. For occupancies in other than Group I-2, exterior exit stairways and ramps shall be permit­ted as an element of a required means of egress for buildings not exceeding six stories above grade plane or which are not 


> 	high-rise buildings. 
[B] 
1026.3 Open side. Exterior exit stairways and ramps serving as an element of a required means of egress shall be open on at least one side. An open side shall have a minimum of 35 square feet (3.3 m2) of aggregate open area adjacent to each floor level and the level of each intermediate landing. The required open area shall be located not less than 42 inches (1067 mm) above the adjacent floor or landing level. 

[B] 
1026.4 Side yards. The open areas adjoining exterior exit stairways or ramps shall be either yards, courts or public ways; the remaining sides are permitted to be enclosed by the exterior walls of the building. 

[B] 
1026.5 Location. Exterior exit stairways and ramps shall have a minimum fire separation distance of 10 feet (3048 mm) measured from the exterior edge of the stairway or ramp, including landings, to adjacent lot lines and from other buildings on the same lot unless the adjacent building exterior walls and openings are protected in accordance with Section 705 of the California Building Code based on fire separation distance. 

[B] 
1026.6 Exterior stairway and ramp protection. Exte­rior exit stairways and ramps shall be separated from the inte­rior of the building as required in Section 1022.7. Openings shall be limited to those necessary for egress from normally occupied spaces. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required for occupancies, other than those in Group R-1 or R-2, in buildings that are no more than two stories above grade plane where a level of exit dis­charge serving such occupancies is the first story above grade plane. 

2. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required where the exterior stairway or ramp is served by an exterior ramp or balcony that connects two remote exterior stairways or other approved exits with a perimeter that is not less than 50 percent open. To be considered open, the opening shall be a minimum of 50 percent of the height of the enclos­ing wall, with the top of the openings no less than 7 feet (2134 mm) above the top of the balcony. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE MEANS OF EGRESS 
3. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required for an exterior stairway or ramp located in a building or structure that is permitted to have unen­closed exit access stairways in accordance with Sec­tion 1009.3. 

4. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required for exterior stairways or ramps connected to open-ended corridors, provided that Items 4.1 through 4.5 are met: 


4.1.The building, including corridors, stairways or ramps, shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 
4.2. The open-ended corridors comply with Sec­tion 1018. 
4.3. The open-ended corridors are connected on each end to an exterior exit ramp or stairway complying with Section 1026. 
4.4. The exterior walls and openings adjacent to the exterior exit stairway or ramp comply with Section 1022.7. 
4.5. At any location in 	an open-ended cotTidor where a change of direction exceeding 45 degrees (0.79 rad) occurs, a clear opening of not less than 35 square feet (3.3 m2) or an exterior stairway or ramp shall be provided. Where clear openings are provided, they shall be located so as to minimize the accu­mulation of smoke or toxic gases. 
SECTION 1027 EXIT DISCHARGE 

[B] 1027.1 General. Exits shall discharge directly to the exterior of the building. The exit discharge shall be at grade or shall provide a direct path of egress travel to grade. The I I exit discharge shall not reenter a building. The combined use of Exceptions 1 and 2 shall not exceed 50 percent of the num­ber and capacity of the required exits. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	A maximum of 50 percent of the number and capac­ity of interior exit stairways and ramps is permitted to egress through areas on the level of exit discharge provided all of the following are met: 
1.1. Such enclosures egress to a free and unob­structed path of travel to an exterior exit door and such exit is readily visible and identifi­able from the point of termination of the enclosure. 
1.2. The entire area of the level of exit discharge is separated from areas below by construc­tion conforming to the fire-resistance rating for the enclosure. 
1.3. The egress path from the interior exit stair­way and ramp on the level of exit discharge is protected throughout by an approved auto­matic sprinkler system. All portions of the level of exit discharge with access to the egress path shall either be protected through­out with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 

903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, or separated from the egress path in accordance with the require­ments for the enclosure of interior exit stair­ways or ramps. 

2. 	A maximum of 50 percent of the number and capac­ity of the interior exit stairways and ramps is permit­ted to egress through a vestibule provided all of the following are met: 
2.1.The entire area of the vestibule is separated from areas below by construction conform­ing to the fire-resistance rating for the enclo­sure. 
2.2.The depth from the exterior of the building is not greater than 10 feet (3048 mm) and the length is not greater than 30 feet (9144 mm). 
2.3.The area is separated from the remainder of the level of exit discharge by construction providing protection at least the equivalent of approved wired glass in steel frames. 
2.4.The area is used only for means of egress and exits directly to the outside. 

3. 	Horizontal exits complying with Section 1025 shall not be required to discharge directly to the exterior of the building. 
[B] 1027.2 Exit discharge capacity. The capacity of the exit discharge shall be not less than the required discharge capac­ity of the exits being served. 
• 
[B] 1027.3 Exit discharge components. Exit discharge com­ponents shall be sufficiently open to the exterior so as to min­imize the accumulation of smoke and toxic gases. 
[B] 
1027.4 Egress courts. Egress courts serving as a portion of the exit discharge in the means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of Section 1027. 

[B] 
1027.4.1 Width. The minimum width of egress courts shall be determined as specified in Section 1005.1, but such width shall not be less than 44 inches (1118 mm), except as specified herein. Egress courts serving Group R­3 and U occupancies shall not be less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width. The required width of egress courts shall be unobstructed to a height of 7 feet (2134 mm). 


Exception: Encroachments complying with Section 1005.7. 
Where an egress court exceeds the minimum required width and the width of such egress court is then reduced along the path of exit travel, the reduction in width shall be gradual. The transition in width shall be affected by a guard not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in height and shall not create an angle of more than 30 degrees (0.52 rad) with respect to the axis of the egress court along the path of egress travel. In no case shall the width of the egress court be less than the required minimum. 
1027.4.2 Construction and openings. Where an egress court serving a building or portion thereof is less than 10 feet (3048 mm) in width, the egress court walls shall have not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction for a distance of 10 feet (3048 mm) above the floor of the court. Openings within such walls shall be protected by opening protectives having a fire protection rating of not less than 3/ 4 hour. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Egress courts serving an occupant load of less than 10. 

2. 	
Egress courts serving Group R-3. 



[B] 1027.5 Access to a public way. The exit discharge shall provide a direct and unobstructed access to a public way. 
Exception: Where access to a public way cannot be pro­vided, a safe dispersal area shall be provided where all of the following are met: 
1. 	The area shall be of a size to accommodate at least 5 square feet (0.46 m2) for each person. 
2. 	For other than GroupE buildings the area shall be located on the same lot at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) away from the building requiring egress. For Group E buildings, the area shall be located on the same lot at least 50 feet ( 15 240 mm) away from any building. 
3. 	
The area shall be permanently maintained and iden­tified as a safe dispersal area. 

4. 	
The area shall be provided with a safe and unob­structed path of travel from the building. 


SECTION 1 028 
ASSEMBLY 


[B] 1028.1 General. A room or space used for assembly pur­poses which contains seats, tables, displays, equipment or other material shall comply with this section. 
Exception: Group A occupancies within Group 1-3 facili­ties are exempt from egress requirements ofSection 1028. 
[B] 
1028.1.1 Bleachers. Bleachers, grandstands and fold­ing and telescopic seating, that are not building elements, shall comply with ICC 300. 

[B] 
1028.1.1.1 Spaces under grandstands and bleachers. When spaces under grandstands or bleach­ers are used for purposes other than ticket booths less than 100 square feet (9.29 m2) and toilet rooms, such spaces shall be separated by fire barriers complying with Section 707 of the California Building Code and horizontal assemblies complying with Section 711 of the California Building Code with not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. 

[B] 
1028.2 Assembly main exit. In a building, room or space used for assembly purposes that has an occupant load of greater than 300 and is provided with a main exit, the main exit shall be of sufficient width to accommodate not less than one-half of the occupant load, but such width shall not be less than the total required width of all means of egress leading to 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

the exit. Where the building is classified as a Group A occu­pancy, the main exit shall front on at least one street or an unoccupied space of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width that adjoins a street or public way. In a building, room or space used for assembly purposes where there is no well­defined main exit or where multiple main exits are provided, exits shall be permitted to be distributed around the perimeter of the building provided that the total width of egress is not less than 100 percent of the required width and at least one exit shall discharge on a street or an unoccupied space ofnot less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width that adjoins a street or II publicway. Smoke-protected seating shall comply with Sec­
.. 

·II 

.. 

tion 1028.6.2 .. 
[B] 1028.3 Assembly other exits. In addition to having access to a main exit, each level in a building used for assem­bly purposes having an occupant load greater than 300 and provided with a main exit, shall be provided with additional means of egress that shall provide an egress capacity for at least one-half of the total occupant load served by that level and shall comply with Section 1015.2. At least one-half ofthe additional means of egress required by this section shall be directly to an exit, or through a lobby, that is not used to access the main exit, to an exit, or to a 1-hour rated corridor to an exit. In a building used for assembly purposes where there is no well-defined main exit or where multiple main exits are provided, exits for each level shall be permitted to be distributed around the perimeter of the building, provided that the total width of egress is not less than 100 percent of the required width and at least one exit shall discharge on a street or an unoccupied space of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width that adjoins a street or publicway. Smoke-pro­tected seating shall comply with Section 1028.6.2. 
1028.3.1 Occupant loads 300 or less. Group A occu­pancies or assembly occupancies accessory to GroupE occupancies that have an occupant load of100 or more and 300 or less, shall have at least one of the required means ofegress directly to an exit, or through a lobby, that is not used to access the other required exit, to an exit, or to a 1-hour rated corridor to an exit or continu­ous through a 1-hour rated lobby to an exit. At least one exit shall discharge on a street or an unoccupied space of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width that adjoins a street or public way. 

[B] 
1028.4 Foyers and lobbies. In Group A-1 occupancies, where persons are admitted to the building at times when seats are not available, such persons shall be allowed to wait in a lobby or similar space, provided such lobby or similar space shall not encroach upon the required clear width of the means of egress. Such foyer, if not directly connected to a public street by all the main entrances or exits, shall have a straight and unobstructed corridor or path of travel to every such main entrance or exit. 

[B] 
1028.5 Interior balcony and gallery means of egress. For balconies, galleries or press boxes having a seating capacity of 50 or more located in a building, room or space used for assembly purposes, at least two means of egress shall be provided, with one from each side of every balcony, gal­lery or press box and at least one leading directly to an exit. 


MEANS OF EGRESS 

[B] 
1028.6 Width of means of egress for assembly. The clear width of aisles and other means of egress shall comply with Section 1028.6.1 where smoke-protected seating is not provided and with Section 1028.6.2 or 1028.6.3 where smoke-protected seating is provided. The clear width shall be measured to walls, edges of seating and tread edges except for permitted projections. 

[B] 
1028.6.1 Without smoke protection. The clear width of the means of egress shall provide sufficient capacity in accordance with all of the following, as applicable: 


1. 	
At least 0.3 inch (7 .6 mm) of width for each occu­pant served shall be provided on stairs having riser heights 7 inches (178 mm) or less and tread depths 11 inches (279 mm) or greater, measured horizon­tally between tread nosings. 

2. 	
At least 0.005 inch (0.127 mm) of additional stair width for each occupant shall be provided for each 


0.10 inch (2.5 mm) of riser height above 7 inches (178 mm). 
3. 	
Where egress requires stair descent, at least 0.075 inch (1.9 mm) of additional width for each occupant shall be provided on those portions of stair width having no handrail within a horizontal distance of 30 inches (762 mm). 

4. 	
Ramped means of egress, where slopes are steeper than one unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (8-per­cent slope), shall have at least 0.22 inch (5.6 mm) of clear width for each occupant served. Level or ramped means of egress, where slopes are not steeper than one unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (8-percent slope), shall have at least 0.20 inch (5.1 mm) of clear width for each occupant served. 



[B] 1028.6.2 Smoke-protected seating. The clear width of the means of egress for smoke-protected assembly seat­ing shall not be less than the occupant load served by the egress element multiplied by the appropriate factor in Table 1028.6.2. The total number of seats specified shall be those within the space exposed to the same smoke-pro­tected environment. Interpolation is permitted between the specific values shown. A life safety evaluation, complying with NFPA 101, shall be done for a facility utilizing the reduced width requirements of Table 1028.6.2 for smoke­protected assembly seating. 
Exception: For an outdoor smoke-protected assembly seating with an occupant load not greater than 18,000, the clear width shall be determined using the factors in Section 1028.6.3. 
[B] 
1028.6.2.1 Smoke control. Means of egress serv­ing a smoke-protected assembly seating area shall be provided with a smoke control system complying with Section 909 or natural ventilation designed to maintain the smoke level at least 6 feet (1829 mm) above the floor of the means of egress. 

[B] 
1028.6.2.2 Roof height. A smoke-protected assem­bly seating area with a roof shall have the lowest por­tion of the roof deck not less than 15 feet (4572 mm) above the highest aisle or aisle accessway. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[B) TABLE 1028.6.2 WIDTH OF AISLES FOR SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY 
TOTAL NUMBER OF SEATS IN THE SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY SEATING  INCHES OF CLEAR WIDTH PER SEAT SERVED  
Stairs and aisle steps with handrails within 30 inches  Stairs and aisle steps without handrails within 30inches  Passageways, doorways and ramps not steeper than 1 in 1 0 in slope  Ramps steeper than 1 in 10 in slope  
Equal to or less than 5,000  0.200  0.250  0.150  0.165  
10,000  0.130  0.163  0.100  0.110  
15,000  0.096  0.120  0.070  0.077  
20,000  0.076  0.095  0.056  0.062  
Equal to or greater than 25,000  0.060  O.D75  0.044  0.048  

For SI: 1 inch =25.4 mm. 
Exception: A roof canopy in an outdoor stadium shall be permitted to be less than 15 feet ( 4572 mm) above the highest aisle or aisle accessway provided that there are no objects less than 80 inches (2032 mm) above the highest aisle or aisle accessway. 

[B] 1028.6.2.3 Automatic sprinklers. Enclosed areas with walls and ceilings in buildings or structures con­taining smoke-protected assembly seating shall be pro­tected with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The floor area used for contests, petformances or entertainment provided the roof construc­tion is more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) above the floor level and the use is restricted to low fire hazard uses. 

2. 	
Press boxes and storage facilities less than 1,000 square feet (93m2) in area. 

3. 	
Outdoor seating facilities where seating and the means of egress in the seating area are essentially open to the outside. 



[B] 1028.6.3 Width of means of egress for outdoor smoke-protected assembly seating. The clear width in inches (mm) of aisles and other means of egress shall be not less than the total occupant load served by the egress element multiplied by 0.08 (2.0 mm) where egress is by aisles and stairs and multiplied by 0.06 (1.52 mm) where egress is by ramps, corridors, tunnels or vomitories. 
Exception: The clear width in inches (mm) of aisles and other means of egress shall be permitted to comply with Section 1028.6.2 for the number of seats in the outdoor smoke-protected assembly seating where Sec­tion 1028.6.2 permits less width. 
1028.6.4 Public address system. See Section 907.2.1.2. 
[B] 1028.7 Travel distance. Exits and aisles shall be so located that the travel distance to an exit door shall not be greater than 200 feet (60 960 mm) measured along the line of travel in nonsprinklered buildings. Travel distance shall not be more than 250 feet (76 200 mm) in sprinklered buildings. Where aisles are provided for seating, the distance shall be measured along the aisles and aisle accessway without travel over or on the seats. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Smoke-protected assembly seating: The travel dis­tance from each seat to the nearest entrance to a vomitory or concourse shall not exceed 200 feet (60 960 mm). The travel distance from the entrance to the vomitory or concourse to a stair, ramp or walk on the exterior of the building shall not exceed 200 feet (60 960 mm). 

2. 	
Open-air seating: The travel distance from each seat to the building exterior shall not exceed 400 feet (122 m). The travel distance shall not be limited in facilities of Type I or II construction. 


[B] 1028.8 Common path of egress travel. The common path of egress travel shall not exceed 30 feet (9144 mm) from any seat to a point where an occupant has a choice of two paths of egress travel to two exits. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
For areas serving less than 50 occupants, the com­mon path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet (22 860 mm). 

2. 	
For smoke-protected assembly seating, the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm). 


[B] 1028.8.1 Path through adjacent row. Where one of the two paths of travel is across the aisle through a row of seats to another aisle, there shall be not more than 24 seats between the two aisles, and the minimum clear width between rows for the row between the two aisles shall be 12 inches (305 mm) plus 0.6 inch (15.2 mm) for each additional seat above seven in the row between aisles. 
Exception: For smoke-protected assembly seating there shall not be more than 40 seats between the two aisles and the minimum clear width shall be 12 inches (305 mm) plus 0.3 inch (7.6 mm) for each additional seat. 
[B] 1028.9 Assembly aisles are required. Every occupied portion of any building, room or space used for assembly pur­poses that contains seats, tables, displays, similar fixtures or equipment shall be provided with aisles leading to exits or exit access doorways in accordance with this section. Aisle accessways for tables and seating shall comply with Section 1028.10.1. 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
[B] 1028.9.1 Minimum aisle width. The minimum clear width for aisles shall be as shown: 
1. 	Forty-eight inches (1219 mm) for aisle stairs having seating on each side. 
Exception: Thirty-six inches (914 mm) where the aisle serves less than 50 seats. 
2. 	
Thirty-six inches (914 mm) for aisle stairs having seating on only one side. 

Exception: Twenty-three inches (584 mm) between an aisle stair handrail and seating where an aisle does not serve more than five rows on one side. 

3. 	
Twenty-three inches (584 mm) between an aisle stair handrail or guard and seating where the aisle is subdivided by a handrail. 

4. 	
Forty-two inches (1067 mm) for level or ramped aisles having seating on both sides. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Thirty-six inches (914 mm) where the aisle serves less than 50 seats. 

2. 	
Thirty inches (762 mm) where the aisle does not serve more than 14 seats. 


5. 	Thirty-six inches (914 mm) for level or ramped aisles having seating on only one side. 
Exception: Thirty inches (762 mm) where the aisle does not serve more than 14 seats. 
6. 	Libraries with open book stacks shall have main aisles not less than 44 inches (1118 mm) in width, and side, range and end aisles not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width. 
[B] 
1028.9.2 Aisle width. The aisle width shall provide sufficient egress capacity for the number of persons accommodated by the catchment area served by the aisle. The catchment area served by an aisle is that portion of the total space that is served by that section of the aisle. In establishing catchment areas, the assumption shall be made that there is a balanced use of all means of egress, with the number of persons in proportion to egress capac­ity. 

[B] 
1028.9.3 Converging aisles. Where aisles converge to form a single path of egress travel, the required egress capacity of that path shall not be less than the combined required capacity of the converging aisles. 

[B] 
1028.9.4 Uniform width. Those portions of aisles, where egress is possible in either of two directions, shall be uniform in required width. 


[B) 1028.9.5 Assembly aisle termination. Each end of an 
aisle shall terminate at cross aisle, foyer, doorway, vomi­
tory or concourse having access to an exit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Dead-end aisles shall not be greater than 20 feet (6096 mm) in length. 

2. 	
Dead-end aisles longer than 20 feet (6096 mm) are permitted where seats beyond the 20-foot 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(6096 mm) dead-end aisle are no more than 24 seats from another aisle, measured along a row of seats having a minimum clear width of 12 inches (305 mm) plus 0.6 inch (15.2 mm) for each addi­tional seat above seven in the row. 
3. 	
For smoke-protected assembly seating, the dead­end aisle length of vertical aisles shall not exceed a distance of 21 rows. 

4. 	
For smoke-protected assembly seating, a longer dead-end aisle is permitted where seats beyond the 21-row dead-end aisle are not more than 40 seats from another aisle, measured along a row of seats having an aisle accessway with a minimum clear width of 12 inches (305 mm) plus 0.3 inch 


(7.6 mm) for each additional seat above seven in the row. 

[B] 1028.9.6 Assembly aisle obstructions. There shall be no obstructions in the required width of aisles except for handrails as provided in Section 1028.13. 
[B) 1028.10 Aisle accessways. Aisle accessways for seating at tables shall comply with Section 1028.10.1. Aisle access­ways for seating in rows shall comply with Section 1028.10.2. 
[B] 1028.10.1 Seating at tables. Where seating is located at a table or counter and is adjacent to an aisle or aisle accessway, the measurement of required clear width of the aisle or aisle accessway shall be made to a line 19 inches ( 483 mm) away from and parallel to the edge of the table or counter. The 19-inch (483 mm) distance shall be mea­sured perpendicular to the side of the table or counter. In the case of other side boundaries for aisle or aisle access­ways, the clear width shall be measured to walls, edges of seating and tread edges, except that handrail projections are permitted. 
Exception: Where tables or counters are served by fixed seats, the width of the aisle accessway shall be measured from the back of the seat. 
[B] 1028.10.1.1 Aisle accessway width for seating at tables. Aisle accessways serving arrangements of seat­ing at tables or counters shall have sufficient clear width to conform to the capacity requirements of Sec­tion 1005.1 but shall not have less than a minimum of 12 inches (305 mm) of width plus 1inch (12.7 mm) of
/2 
width for each additional 1 foot (305 mm), or fraction thereof, beyond 12 feet (3658 mm) of aisle accessway length measured from the center of the seat farthest from an aisle. 
Exception: Portions of an aisle accessway having a 
length not exceeding 6 feet (1829 mm) and used by • a total of not more than four persons. 
[B] 1028.10.1.2 Seating at table aisle accessway length. The length of travel along the aisle accessway shall not exceed 30 feet (9144 mm) from any seat to the point where a person has a choice of two or more paths of egress travel to separate exits. 

[B) 1028.10.2 Clear width of aisle accessways serving seating in rows. Where seating rows have 14 or fewer seats, the minimum clear aisle accessway width shall not be less than 12 inches (305 mm) measured as the clear horizontal distance from the back of the row ahead and the nearest projection of the row behind. Where chairs have automatic or self-rising seats, the measurement shall be made with seats in the raised position. Where any chair in the row does not have an automatic or self-rising seat, the measurements shall be made with the seat in the down position. For seats with folding tablet arms, row spacing shall be determined with the tablet arm in the used posi­tion. 
Exception: For seats with folding tablet arms, row spacing is permitted to be determined with the tablet arm in the stored position where the tablet arm when raised manually to vertical position in one motion auto­matically returns to the stored position by force of grav­ity. 
[B] 1028.10.2.1 Dnal access. For rows of seating served by aisles or doorways at both ends, there shall not be more than 100 seats per row. The minimum clear width of 12 inches (305 mm) between rows shall be increased by 0.3 inch (7.6 mm) for every additional seat beyond 14 seats, but the minimum clear width is not required to exceed 22 inches (559 mm). 
Exception: For smoke-protected assembly seating, the row length limits for a 12-inch-wide (305 mm) aisle accessway, beyond which the aisle accessway minimum clear width shall be increased, are in Table 1028.10.2.1. 

[8] TABLE 1028.10.2.1 
SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY AISLE ACCESSWA YS 

MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SEATS PER ROW  
TOTAL NUMBER OF  PERMITTED TO HAVE A MINIMUM 12-INCH  
SEATS IN THE  CLEAR WIDTH AISLE ACCESSWAY  
SMOKE-PROTECTED  
ASSEMBLY SEATING  Aisle or doorway at  Aisle or doorway at  
both ends of row  one end of row only  
Less than 4,000  14  7  
4,000  15  7  
7,000  16  8  
10,000  17  8  
13,000  18  9  
16,000  19  9  
19,000  20  10  
22,000 and greater  21  11  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm. 
[B] 1028.10.2.2 Single access. For rows of seating served by an aisle or doorway at only one end of the row, the minimum clear width of 12 inches (305 mm) between rows shall be increased by 0.6 inch (15.2 mm) for every additional seat beyond seven seats, but the minimum clear width is not required to exceed 22 inches (559 mm). 
Exception: For smoke-protected assembly seating, the row length limits for a 12-inch wide (305 mm) aisle access way, beyond which the aisle accessway lllimmum clear width shall be increased, are in Table 1028.10.2.1. 

[B] 
1028.11 Assembly aisle walking surfaces. Aisles with a slope not exceeding one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12.5-percent slope) shall consist of a ramp having a slip­resistant walking surface. Aisles with a slope exceeding one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12.5-percent slope) shall consist of a series of risers and treads that extends across the full width of aisles and complies with Sections 1028.11.1 through 1028.11.3. 

[B] 
1028.11.1 Treads. Tread depths shall be a minimum of 11 inches (279 mm) and shall have dimensional unifor­mity. 


Exception: The tolerance between adjacent treads shall not exceed 3inch (4.8 mm). 
/ 16 

[B] 1028.11.2 Risers. Where the gradient of aisle stairs is to be the same as the gradient of adjoining seating areas, the riser height shall not be less than 4 inches (102 mm) nor more than 8 inches (203 mm) and shall be uniform within each flight. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Riser height nonuniformity shall be limited to the extent necessitated by changes in the gradient of the adjoining seating area to maintain adequate sightlines. Where non uniformities exceed 
3I16 
inch (4.8 mm) between adjacent risers, the exact location of such nonuniformities shall be indi­cated with a distinctive marking stripe on each tread at the nosing or leading edge adjacent to the nonuniform risers. Such stripe shall be a mini­mum of 1 inch (25 mm), and a maximum of 2 inches (51 mm), wide. The edge marking stripe shall be distinctively different from the contrast­ing marking stripe. 

2. 	Riser heights not exceeding 9 inches (229 mm) shall be permitted where they are necessitated by the slope of the adjacent seating areas to maintain sightlines. 
[B] 1028.11.3 Tread contrasting marking stripe. A con­trasting marking stripe shall be provided on each tread at the nosing or leading edge such that the location of each tread is readily apparent when viewed in descent. Such stripe shall be a minimum of 1 inch (25 mm), and a maxi­mum of 2 inches (51 mm), wide. 
Exception: The contrasting marking stripe is permitted to be omitted where tread surfaces are such that the location of each tread is readily apparent when viewed in descent. 
[B] 1028.12 Seat stability. In a building, room or space used for assembly purposes, the seats shall be securely fastened to the floor. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	In a building, room or space used for assembly pur­poses or portions thereof without ramped or tiered floors for seating and with 200 or fewer seats, the seats shall not be required to be fastened to the floor. 
MEANS OF EGRESS 
2. 	
In a building, room or space used for assembly pur­poses or portions thereof with seating at tables and without ramped or tiered floors for seating, the seats shall not be required to be fastened to the floor. 

3. 	
In a building, room or space used for assembly pur­poses or portions thereof without ramped or tiered floors for seating and with greater than 200 seats, the seats shall be fastened together in groups of not less than three or the seats shall be securely fastened to the floor. 

4. 
In a building, room or space used for assembly pur­poses where flexibility of the seating arrangement is an integral part of the design and function of the space and seating is on tiered levels, a maximum of 200 seats shall not be required to be fastened to the floor. Plans showing seating, tiers and aisles shall be submitted for approval. 

5. 	
Groups of seats within a building, room or space used for assembly purposes separated from other seating by railings, guards, partial height walls or similar barriers with level floors and having no more than 14 seats per group shall not be required to be fastened to the floor. 

6. 	
Seats intended for musicians or other performers and separated by railings, guards, partial height walls or similar barriers shall not be required to be fastened to the floor. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.06(a)] Bonding ofChairs and Spacing ofTables. 
(a) Bonding of chairs. In every Group A and Group E occupancy, all loose seats, folding chairs or similar seat­ing facilities that are not fixed to the floor shall be bonded together in groups ofnot less than three. 
Exceptions: 
(
1) 	When not more than 200 such seats, chairs or facilities are provided, bonding thereof may be deleted. 

(2) 	
The bonding of chairs shall not be required when tables are provided as when the occupancy is used for dining or similar purposes. 

(
3) 	Upon approval of the enforcing agency, the bond­ing of chairs shall not be required when the place­ment and location of such chairs do not obstruct any required exit or any line of egress toward required exits and do not constitute a fire hazard as defined in California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 3.14. 



[B] 1028.13 Handrails. Ramped aisles having a slope exceeding one unit vertical in 15 units horizontal (6.7-percent slope) and aisle stairs shall be provided with handrails in compliance with Section 1012 located either at one or both sides of the aisle or within the aisle width. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Handrails are not required for ramped aisles having a gradient no greater than one unit vertical in eight 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
units horizontal (12.5-percent slope) and seating on both sides. 
2. 	
Handrails are not required if, at the side of the aisle, there is a guard that complies with the graspability requirements of handrails. 

3. 	
Handrail extensions are not required at the top and bottom of aisle stair and aisle ramp runs to permit crossovers within the aisles. 



[B] 
1028.13.1 Discontinuous handrails. Where there is seating on both sides of the aisle, the handrails shall be discontinuous with gaps or breaks at intervals not exceed­ing five rows to facilitate access to seating and to permit crossing from one side of the aisle to the other. These gaps or breaks shall have a clear width of at least 22 inches (559 mm) and not greater than 36 inches (914 mm), measured horizontally, and the handrail shall have rounded termina­tions or bends. 

[B] 
1028.13.2 Intermediate handrails. Where handrails are provided in the middle of aisle stairs, there shall be an additional intermediate handrail located approximately 12 inches (305 mm) below the main handrail. 

[B] 
1028.14 Assembly guards. Guards adjacent to seating in a building, room or space used for assembly purposes shall comply with Sections 1028.14.1 through 1028.14.3. 

[B] 
1028.14.1 Cross aisles. Cross aisles located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards in accordance with Section 1013. 


Where an elevation change of 30 inches (762 mm) or less occurs between a cross aisle and the adjacent floor or grade below, guards not less than 26 inches (660 mm) above the aisle floor shall be provided. 
Exception: Where the backs of seats on the front of the cross aisle project 24 inches (610 mm) or more above the adjacent floor of the aisle, a guard need not be pro­vided. 

[B] 
1028.14.2 Sightline-constrained guard heights. Unless subject to the requirements of Section 1028.14.3, a fascia or railing system in accordance with the guard requirements of Section 1013 and having a minimum height of 26 inches (660 mm) shall be provided where the floor or footboard elevation is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below and the fascia or rail­ing would otherwise interfere with the sightlines of imme­diately adjacent seating. At bleachers, a guard must be provided where required by ICC 300. 

Exception: The height of the guard in front of seating shall be measured from the adjacent walking surface. 


[B] 
1028.14.3 Guards at the end of aisles. A fascia or railing system complying with the guard requirements of Section 1013 shall be provided for the full width of the aisle where the foot of the aisle is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below. The fascia or railing shall be a minimum of 36 inches (914 mm) high and shall provide a minimum 42 inches (1067 mm) mea­sured diagonally between the top of the rail and the nosing of the nearest tread. • 


SECTION 1029 
EMERGENCYESCAPEANDRESCUE 


[B] 1029.1 General. In addition to the means of egress required by this chapter, provisions shall be made for emer­gency escape and rescue openings in Group R-2 occupancies in accordance with Tables 1021.2(1) and 1021.2(2) and Group R-3 occupancies. Basements and sleeping rooms below the fourth story above grade plane shall have at least one exterior emergency escape and rescue opening in accor­dance with this section. Where basements contain one or more sleeping rooms, emergency escape and rescue openings shall be required in each sleeping room, but shall not be required in adjoining areas of the basement. Such openings shall open directly into a public way or to a yard or court that opens to a public way. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Basements with a ceiling height of less than 80 inches (2032 mm) shall not be required to have emergency escape and rescue openings. 

2. 	
Emergency escape and rescue openings are not required from basements or sleeping rooms that have an exit door or exit access door that opens directly into a public way or to a yard, court or exte­rior exit balcony that opens to a public way. 

3. 	
Basements without habitable spaces and having no more than 200 square feet (18.6 m2) in floor area shall not be required to have emergency escape and rescure openings. 


[B] 1029.2 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a minimum net clear opening of 5.7 square feet (0.53 m2). 
Exception: The minimum net clear opening for grade­floor emergency escape and rescue openings shall be 5 square feet (0.46 m2). 
[B] 
1029.2.1 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension shall be 24 inches (610 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimen­sions shall be the result of normal operation of the opening. 

[B] 
1029.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have the bottom of the clear open­ing not greater than 44 inches (1118 mm) measured from the floor. 

[B] 
1029.4 Operational constraints. Emergency escape and rescue openings and any exit doors shall be maintained free of any obstructions other than those allowed by this section and shall be operational from the inside of the room. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies with Section 1029.2 and such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool, special knowl­edge or effort, or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape and rescue opening. Where such bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are installed, smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Sections 


907.2.11 regardless of the valuation of the alteration. The release mechanism shall be maintained operable at all times. 
Such bars, grills, grates or any similar devices shall be equipped with an approved exterior release device for use by the fire department only when required by the authority hav­ing jurisdiction. 
Where security bars (burglar bars) are installed on emer­gency egress and rescue windows or doors, on or after July 1, 2000, such devices shall comply with California Building Standards Code, Part 12, Chapter 12-3 and other applicable provisions ofPart 2. 
Exception: Group R-1 occupancies provided with a moni­tored fire sprinkler system in accordance with Section 
903.2.8 and designed in accordance with NFPA 13 may have openable windows permanently restricted to a maxi­mum 4-inch ( 102 mm) open position. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §4.2] Labeling. 
Burglar bars shall not be sold in California at wholesale or retail unless warning information as specified in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 4.3 is pro­vided either on the packaging or provided inside the packag­ing along with the burglar bars. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §4.3(a) through (c)] Warning information. 
(a) 
Warning information located on or in burglar bar packaging shall contain the following information: 

(
1) Warning that the burglar bars are intended to deter or delay intruders, they are not intended to prevent entry. 

(2) 
A reprint of the following requirements from Cali­fornia Building Code, Part 2, Chapter 10: 


"Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices may be installed on emergency escape or rescue windows, doors or window wells, or any required exit door, provided: 
1. 	
The devices are equipped with approved release mechanisms which are openable from the inside without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort; and 

2. 	
The building is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance with California Build­ing Code, Part 2, Section 907. 



Such bars, grilles, grates or similar devices shall be equipped with an approved release device for use by the fire department only on the exterior side for the purpose of fire department emergency access, when required by the authority having jurisdiction." 
(3) 	
A statement regarding the necessity of installing early warning smoke alarms (as required by the California Building Code, Part 2, Section 907) and planning occupant's escape routes and meeting places. 

(
4) Contact the local building and fire official to deter­mine ifa local ordinance requires a building permit 


prior to installation and if the burglar bars are required to have a release mechanism on the outside for use by the fire department in the event of a fire emergency. 
(
5) Written directions and illustrations on the operation ofthe emergency escape release mechanisms. These directions shall include a warning that the mecha­nisms be tested on a monthly basis. 

(b) 
The textual information required by this section shall be printed in a minimum 12-point nondecorative lettering providing a sharp contrast to the background. 

(c) 
Graphical information required by this section shall be ofsufficient size to clearly illustrate the intended actions. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §4.4] Warning Information Location. 
When placed on burglar bar packaging, the information required by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Divi­sion 1, Section 4.3 shall be conspicuously located and shall not be covered or made illegible by product advertising not required by Section 4.3. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §4.5(a)] Contractor or Installer Disclosures. 
Any contractor or installer of burglar bars shall provide the owner of the residential dwelling the warning information required pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 4.3 prior to installing burglar bars. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §4.6(a) and (b)] Prohibited Installations. 
No person shall install for profit unopenable burglar bars on a residential dwelling: 
(a) 
Where the California Building Code requires openable burglar bars for emergency escape or rescue, or 

(b) 
On mobile homes, manufactured homes, or multi-unit manufactured housing unless at least one window or door to the exterior in each bedroom is openable for emergency escape or rescue. 



[B] 
1029.5 Window wells. An emergency escape and rescue opening with a finished sill height below the adjacent ground level shall be provided with a window well in accordance with Sections 1029.5.1 and 1029.5.2. 

[B] 
1029.5.1 Minimum size. The minimum horizontal area of the window well shall be 9 square feet (0.84 m2), with a minimum dimension of 36 inches (914 mm). The area of the window well shall allow the emergency escape and rescue opening to be fully opened. 

[B] 
1029.5.2 Ladders or steps. Window wells with a ver­tical depth of more than 44 inches (1118 mm) shall be equipped with an approved permanently affixed ladder or steps. Ladders or rungs shall have an inside width of at least 12 inches (305 mm), shall project at least 3 inches (76 mm) from the wall and shall be spaced not more than 18 inches (457 mm) on center (o.c.) vertically for the full height of the window well. The ladder or steps shall not encroach into the required dimensions of the window well by more than 6 inches (152 mm). The ladder or steps shall 



MEANS OF EGRESS 

not be obstructed by the emergency escape and rescue opening. Ladders or steps required by this section are exempt from the stairway requirements of Section 1009. 
SECTION 1030 
MAINTENANCE OF THE MEANS OF EGRESS 


1030.1 General. The means of egress for buildings or por­tions thereof shall be maintained in accordance with this sec­tion. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division 1, §3.11(a) through (d)] Exits, Aisles, Ramps, Corridors and Passageways. 
(a) 
No person shall install, place or permit the installation or placement of any bed, chair, equipment, concession, turnstile, ticket office or anything whatsoever, in any man­ner which would block or obstruct the required width of any exit. 

(b) 
No person shall install, place or permit the installation or placement ofany combustible material or equipment in or exposed to any exit. 


Exceptions: 

(
1) 	Furniture or equipment constructed of wood or other material of similar combustibility may be permitted in an exit or exposed to an exit when approved by the enforcing agency. 

(2) 	
When approved by the enforcing agency, com­bustible materials may be permitted in exit foy­ers and lobbies. 


(c) 
No person shall install, place or permit the installation or placement of any storage material of any kind in any exit regardless ofthe required width of such exit. 

Exception: Personal material located in metal lockers in Group B and E occupancies as defined in California Code ofRegulations, Title 24, Part 2. 


(d) 
Aisles shall not be occupied by any person for whom seating is not available. 


1030.2 Reliability. Required exit accesses, exits and exit dis­charges shall be continuously maintained free from obstruc­tions or impediments to full instant use in the case of fire or other emergency when the building area served by the means of egress is occupied. An exit or exit passageway shall not be used for any purpose that interferes with a means of egress. 
1030.2.1 Security devices and egress locks. Security devices affecting means of egress shall be subject to approval of the fire code official. Special locking arrange­ments including, but not limited to access-controlled egress doors, security grills, locks and latches, and delayed egress locks shall be installed and maintained as required by this chapter. 
1030.3 Obstructions. A means of egress shall be free from obstructions that would prevent its use, including the accu­mulation of snow and ice. 
[B] 1030.4 Exit signs. Exit signs shall be installed and main­tained in accordance with Section 1011. Decorations, furnish­ings, equipment or adjacent signage that impairs the visibility 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
of exit signs, creates confusion or prevents identification of the exit shall not be allowed. 
1030.5 Nonexit identification. Where a door is adjacent to, constructed similar to and can be confused with a means of egress door, that door shall be identified with an approved sign that identifies the room name or use of the room. 
1030.6 Finishes, furnishings and decorations. Means of egress doors shall be maintained in such a manner as to be distinguishable from the adjacent construction and finishes such that the doors are easily recognizable as doors. Furnish­ings, decorations or other objects shall not be placed so as to obstruct exits, access thereto, egress therefrom, or visibility thereof. Hangings and draperies shall not be placed over exit doors or otherwise be located to conceal or obstruct an exit. Mirrors shall not be placed on exit doors. Mirrors shall not be placed in or adjacent to any exit in such a manner as to con­fuse the direction of exit. 
1030.7 Emergency escape and rescue openings. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction, and the following: Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are allowed to be placed over emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of con­struction and such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the emer­gency escape and rescue opening. 
1030.8 Testing and maintenance. All two-way communica­tion systems for areas of refuge shall be inspected and tested on a yearly basis to verify that all components are opera­tional. When required, the tests shall be conducted in the presence of the fire code official. 
1030.9 Floor identification signs. The floor identification signs required by Sections 1022.9 and 1104.23 shall be main­tained in an approved manner. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 11 -CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  X  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section 1103.7 1103.7.3 1103.7.3.1 1103.7.8-11 03.7.8.2 1103.7.9-1103.7.9.10 1103.8 -11 03.8.5.3 1106  X X X X X X X  

... 
..

* The Californza Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, OlVISJOn I provlSlons that are found m the Californza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER11 
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
SECTION 11 01 
GENERAL 


1101.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to existing buildings constructed prior to the adoption of this code. 
1101.2 Intent. The intent of this chapter is to provide a min­imum degree of fire and life safety to persons occupying existing buildings by providing minimum construction requirements where such existing buildings do not comply with the minimum requirements of the California Building Code. 
1101.3 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7 and the California Building Code. 
1101.4 Owner notification. When a building is found to be in noncompliance with this chapter, the fire code official shall duly notify the owner of the building. Upon receipt of such notice, the owner shall, subject to the following time limits, take necessary actions to comply with the provisions of this chapter. 
1101.4.1 Construction documents. Construction docu­ments necessary to comply with this chapter shall be com­pleted and submitted within a time schedule approved by the fire code official. 
1101.4.2 Completion of work. Work necessary to comply with this chapter shall be completed within a time sched­ule approved by the fire code official. 
1101.4.3 Extension of time. The fire code official is authorized to grant necessary extensions of time when it can be shown that the specified time periods are not physi­cally practical or pose an undue hardship. The granting of an extension of time for compliance shall be based on the showing of good cause and subject to the filing of an acceptable systematic plan of correction with the fire code official. 
SECTION 11 02 
DEFINITION 


1102.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
EXISTING. 
SECTION 11 03 
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 
FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 


1103.1 Required construction. Existing buildings shall comply with not less than the minimum provisions specified in Table 1103.1 and as further enumerated in Sections 1103.2 through 1103.9. 
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to allow the elimination of fire protection systems or a reduction in the level of fire safety provided in buildings constructed in accordance with previously adopted codes. 
Exception: Group U occupancies. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
1103.2 Emergency responder radio coverage in existing buildings. Existing buildings that do not have approved radio coverage for emergency responders within the building based upon the existing coverage levels of the public safety com­munication systems of the jurisdiction at the exterior of the building, shall be equipped with such coverage according to one of the following: 
1. 	Whenever an existing wired communication system can­not be repaired or is being replaced, or where not approved in accordance with Section 510.1, Exception 1. 
-· 
2. 	Within a time frame established by the adopting author­
ity. Exception: Where it is determined by the fire code official that the radio coverage system is not needed. 
1103.3 Elevator operation. Existing elevators with a travel distance of 25 feet (7620 mm) or more above or below the main floor or other level of a building and intended to serve the needs of emergency personnel for fire-fighting or rescue purposes shall be provided with emergency operation in accordance with ASME Al7.3. 
TABLE 1103.1 
OCCUPANCY AND USE REQUIREMENTS" 


SECTION  USE  OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION  
High rise  Atrium or covered mall  Under­ground building  A  B  E  F  H-1  H-2  H-3  H-4  H-5  1-1  1-2  1-3  1-4  M  R-1  R-2  R-3  R-4  s  
1103.2  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  
1103.3  R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  
1103.4.1  R  - R  - - - - - - - - - R  R  R  R  - - - - - - 
1103.4.2  R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - - - - R  R  R  - R  R  
1103.4.3  R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - - - - R  R  R  - R  R  
1103.4.4  - R  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
1103.4.5  -­ - - - R  - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - - 
1103.4.6  - - - R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - R  R  R  R  R  
1103.4.7  - - - R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - R  R  R  R  R  
1103.5.1  - - - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  
1103.5.2  - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - - - - - 
1103.6.1  R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - R  R  
1103.6.2  R  - R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  - R  R  
1103.7.1  - - - - - R  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
1103.7.2  - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - - - - - - 
1103.7.3  - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - - - - - 
1103.7.4  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - - - - 
1103.7.5  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - - 
1103.7.6  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - - - 
1103.7.7  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  - 
1103.8  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - R  R  R  R  - 
1103.9  R  - - - - - - - - - - - R  R  R  R  - R  R  R  R  - 
1104  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  

a. Existing buildings shall comply with the sections identified as "Required" (R) based on occupancy classification or use, or both, whichever is applicable. R =The building is required to comply. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

1103.4 Vertical openings. Interior vertical shafts, including but not limited to stairways, elevator hoistways, service and utility shafts, that connect two or more stories of a building, shall be enclosed or protected as specified in Sections 1103.4.1 through 1103.4.7. 
1103.4.1 Group I occupancies. In Group I occupancies, interior vertical openings connecting two or more stories shall be protected with 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con­struction. 
1103.4.2 Three to five stories. In other than Group I occupancies, interior vertical openings connecting three to five stories shall be protected by either 1-hour fire-resis­tance-rated construction or an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the building in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for Group R-3 occupancies. 

2. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for open parking garages and ramps. 

3. 	
Vertical opening protection for escalators shall be in accordance with Section 1103.4.5, 1103.4.6 or 1103.4.7. 



1103.4.3 More than five stories. In other than Group I occupancies, interior vertical openings connecting more than five stories shall be protected by 1-hour fire-resis­tance-rated construction. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for Group R-3 occupancies. 

2. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for open parking garages and ramps. 

3. 	
Vertical opening protection for escalators shall be in accordance with Section 1103.4.5, 1103.4.6 or 1103.4.7. 



1103.4.4 Atriums and covered malls. In other than Group I occupancies, interior vertical openings in a cov­ered mall building or a building with an atrium shall be protected by either 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construc­tion or an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the building in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for Group R-3 occupancies. 

2. 	
Vertical opening protection is not required for open parking garages and ramps. 



1103.4.5 Escalators in Group B and M occupancies. Escalators creating vertical openings connecting any num­ber of stories shall be protected by either 1-hour fire-resis­tance-rated construction or an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 installed throughout the building, with a draft curtain and closely spaced sprin­klers around the escalator opening. 
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
1103.4.6 Escalators connecting four or fewer stories. In other than Group B and M occupancies, escalators creat­ing vertical openings connecting four or fewer stories shall be protected by either 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con­struction or an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 shall be installed throughout the building, and a draft curtain with closely spaced sprinklers shall be installed around the escalator opening. 
1103.4.7 Escalators connecting more than four stories. In other than Group B and M occupancies, escalators cre­ating vertical openings connecting five or more stories shall be protected by 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construc­tion. 
1103.5 Sprinkler systems. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in existing buildings in accordance with Sections 1103.5.1 and 1103.5.2. 
1103.5.1 Pyroxylin plastics. An automatic sprinkler sys­tem shall be provided throughout existing buildings where cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plastics are manufac­tured, stored or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg). Vaults located within buildings for the storage of raw pyroxylin shall be protected with an approved automatic sprinkler system capable of discharg­ing 1.66 gallons per minute per square foot (68 Llmin/m2) over the area of the vault. 
1103.5.2 Group 1-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout existing Group I-2 fire areas. The sprinkler system shall be provided throughout the floor where the Group I-2 occupancy is located, and in all floors between the Group I-2 occupancy and the level of exit dis­charge. 
1103.6 Standpipes. Existing structures shall be equipped with standpipes installed in accordance with Section 905 where required in Sections 1103.6.1 and 1103.6.2. The fire code official is authorized to approve the installation of man­ual standpipe systems to achieve compliance with this section where the responding fire department is capable of providing the required hose flow at the highest standpipe outlet. 
1103.6.1 Existing multiple-story buildings. Existing buildings with occupied floors located more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) above the lowest level of fire department access or more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) below the high­est level of fire department access shall be equipped with standpipes. 
1103.6.2 Existing helistops and heliports. Existing buildings with a rooftop helistop or heliport located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of fire department access to the roof level on which the helistop or heliport is located shall be equipped with standpipes in accordance with Section 2007.5. 
1103.7 Fire alarm systems. An approved fire alarm system shall be installed in existing buildings and structures in accor­dance with Sections 1103.7.1 through 1103.7.7 and provide occupant notification in accordance with Section 907.5 unless other requirements are provided by other sections of this 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
code. Existing high-rise buildings shall comply with Section 4603.6.8. 
Exception: Occupancies with an existing, previously approved fire alarm system. 
1103.7.1 Group E. A fire alarm system shall be installed in existing Group E occupancies in accordance with Sec­tion 907.2.3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
A manual fire alarm system is not required in a building with a maximum area of 1,000 square feet (93 m2) that contains a single classroom and is located no closer than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from another building. 

2. 	
A manual fire alarm system is not required in Group E occupancies with an occupant load less than 50. 



1103.7.2 Group I-1. An automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in existing Group I-1 residential care/assisted living facilities in accordance with Section 907 .2.6.1. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Manual fire alarm boxes in resident or patient sleeping areas shall not be required at exits if located at all nurses' control stations or other constantly attended staff locations, provided such stations are visible and continuously accessible and that travel distances required in Section 
907.5.2 are not exceeded. 
2. 	Where each sleeping room has a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior egress bal­cony that leads directly to the exits in accordance with Section 1019, and the building is not more than three stories in height. 

1103.7.3 Group I-2 and Group 1-2.1. An automatic fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification sys­tem in accordance with Section 907.6 shall be installed in existing Group I-2 and Group /-2.1 occupancies in accor­dance with Section 907.2.6.2. 
Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes in resident or patient sleeping areas shall not be required at exits if located at all nurses' control stations or other constantly attended staff locations, provided such stations are visi­ble and continuously accessible and that travel dis­tances required in Section 907.4.2.1 are not exceeded. 
1103.7.3.1 Additional provisions for existing Group I occupancies: In projects requiring the Office of State­wide Health Planning and Development approval in existing Group /-2 and /-2.1 occupancies located in buildings defined as hospitals in Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code, facilities not equipped with an automatic sprinkler system throughout shall be equipped with an automatic fire alarm system which responds to the products ofcombustion other than heat. 
Exception: Heat detectors may be used in closets, unusable spaces under floor areas, storage rooms, bathrooms, and rooms ofsimilar use. 

1103.7.4 Group I-3. An automatic and manual fire alarm 
system shall be installed in existing Group 1-3 occupancies 
in accordance with Section 907.2.6.3. 
1103.7.5 Group R-1. A fire alarm system and smoke alarms shall be installed in existing Group R-1 occupan­cies in accordance with Sections 1103.7.5.1 through 1103.7.5.2.1. 
1103.7.5.1 Group R-1 hotel and motel manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that acti­vates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-1 hotels and motels more than three stories or with more than 20 sleeping units. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Buildings less than two stories in height where all sleeping units, attics and crawl spaces are separated by 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con­struction and each sleeping unit has direct access to a public way, egress court or yard. 

2. 	
Manual fire alarm boxes are not required throughout the building when the following conditions are met: 


2.1. The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2; 
2.2. The notification appliances will acti­vate upon sprinkler water flow; and 
2.3. At least one manual fire alarm box is installed at an approved location. 

1103.7.5.1.1 Group R-1 hotel and motel auto­matic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 
907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R -1 hotels and motels throughout all interior corridors serving sleeping rooms not equipped with an approved, supervised sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903. 
Exception: An automatic smoke detection sys­tem is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units and where each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit. 

1103.7.5.2 Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm sys­tem that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses. 
Exception: Buildings less than two stories in height where all sleeping units, attics and crawl spaces are separated by 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construc­tion and each sleeping unit has direct access to a public way, egress court or yard. 
1103.7.5.2.1 Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses throughout all interior corridors serving sleeping units not equipped with an approved, supervised sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903. 
Exception: Buildings equipped with single-sta­tion smoke alarms meeting or exceeding the requirements of Section 907 .2.11.1 and where the fire alarm system includes at least one manual fire alarm box per floor arranged to initiate the alarm. 
1103.7.6 Group R-2. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-2 occupancies more than three stories in height or with more than 16 dwelling or sleeping units. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where each living unit is separated from other contiguous living units by fire barriers having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 0.75 hour, and where each living unit has either its own independent exit or its own independent stairway or ramp discharging at grade. 

2. 	
A separate fire alarm system is not required in buildings that are equipped throughout with an approved supervised automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 


903.3.1.2 and having a local alarm to notify all occupants. 
3. 	A fire alarm system is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving dwell­ing units and are protected by an approved auto­matic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, provided that dwelling units either have a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to the exits or are served by open­ended corridors designed in accordance with Sec­tion 1026.6, Exception 4. 
1103.7.7 Group R-4. A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in existing Group R-4 residential care/assisted living facilities in accordance with Section 907.2.10.1. 
Exceptions: 
l. 	Where there are interconnected smoke alarms meeting the requirements of Section 907.2.11 and there is at least one manual fire alarm box per floor ananged to continuously sound the smoke alarms. 
2. 	Other manually activated, continuously sound­ing alarms approved by the fire code official. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
1103.7.8 Existing Group R-1 and Group R-2 High-rise II buildings. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3412.23 of the California Building Code, every existing high-rise building used for the housing of a Group R-1 or Group R-2 occupancy shall have installed therein a fire alarm system conforming to this subsection. 
1103.7.8.1 General. Every apartment house and every 1 I hotel shall have installed therein an automatic or man­ually operated fire alarm system. Such fire alarm sys­tems shall be so designed that all occupants of the building may be warned simultaneously. 
1103.7.8.2 Installation. The installation of all fire I I alarm equipment shall be in accordance with this code. 
1103.7.9 Existing High-rise Buildings. 
II 
1103.7.9.1 Fire alarm system. Every existing high-rise building shall be provided with an approved fire alarm system. In department stores, retail sales stores and similar occupancies where the general public is admit­ted, such systems shall be of a type capable ofalerting staff and employees. In office buildings and all other high-rise buildings, such systems shall be of a type capable ofalerting all occupants simultaneously. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
In areas of public assemblage, the type and location of audible appliances shall be as determined by the enforcing agency. 

2. 	
When acceptable to the enforcing agency, the occupant voice notification system required by California Building Code, Section 3412.21 may be used in lieu ofthe fire alarm system. 


1103. 7.9.2 Existing systems. Existing fire alarm sys-I I terns, when acceptable to the enforcing agency, shall be deemed as conforming to the provisions of these regu­lations. 
1103. 7.9.3 Annunciation. When a new fire alarm sys-I I tern is installed, it shall be connected to an annunciator panel installed in a location approved by the enforcing agency. 
For purposes of annunciation, zoning shall be in accordance with Section 907. 7.3.1. 
1103.7.9.4 Monitoring. Monitoring shall be in accor-I I dance with Section 907. 7.5. 
1103. 7.9.5 Systems interconnection. When an auto-I I matic fire detection system or automatic extinguishing system is installed, activation of such system shall cause the sounding of the fire alarm notification appli­ances at locations designated by the enforcing agency. 
1103.7.9.6 Manual fire alarm boxes. A manual fire II alarm box shall be provided in the locations designated by the enforcing agency. Such locations shall be where boxes are readily accessible and visible and in normal paths ofdaily travel by occupants ofthe building. 
1103. 7.9. 7 Emergency voice/alarm communication I I system. Such system shall provide communication from 
245 

a location available to and designated by the enforcing agency to not less than all public areas. 
The emergency voice/alarm communication system may be combined with a fire alarm system provide the combined system has been approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal. The sounding ofafire alarm signal in any given area or floor shall not prohibit voice com­munication to other areas offloors. Combination sys­tems shall be designed to permit voice transmission to override the fire alarm signal, but the fire alarm signal shall not terminate in less than three minutes. 
II 	1103.7.9.8 Fire department system. When it is deter­mined by test that portable fire department communica­tion equipment is ineffective, a communication system acceptable to the enforcing agency shall be installed within the building to permit emergency communica­tion between fire-suppression personnel. 
II 	1103.7.9.9 Smoke control systems. Existing air-circu­lation systems shall be provided with an override switch in a location approved by the enforcing agency which will allow for the manual control of shutdown of the systems. 
Exception: Systems which serve only a single floor, or portion thereof, without any penetration by ducts or other means into adjacent floors. 
II 	1103.7.9.10 Elevator recall smoke detection. Smoke detection for emergency operation ofelevators shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.4.3. 
1103.8 Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single­and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in exist­ing Group 1-1 and R occupancies in accordance with Sections 1103.8.1 through 1103.8.3. 
1103.8.1 Where required. Existing Group 1-1 and R occupancies shall be provided with single-station smoke alarms in accordance with Section 907.2.11, except as pro­vided in Sections 1103.8.2 and 1103.8.3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where the code that was in effect at the time of construction required smoke alarms and smoke alarms complying with those requirements are already provided. 


2. 	
Where smoke alarms have been installed in occu­pancies and dwellings that were not required to have them at the time of construction, additional smoke alarms shall not be required provided that the existing smoke alarms comply with require­ments that were in effect at the time of installa­tion. 

3. 	
Where smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system have been installed as a substitute for smoke alarms. 


1103.8.2 Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be installed within an individual dwelling or sleeping unit, the smoke alarms shall be inter­connected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate all of the alarms in the individual unit. 
246 
Physical interconnection of smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Interconnection is not required in buildings that are not undergoing alterations, repairs or con­struction of any kind. 

2. 	
Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space or basement avail­able which could provide access for interconnec­tion without the removal of interior finishes. 


3. 	
Smoke alarms are not required to be intercon­nected where repairs or alterations are limited to the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as the replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement ofwindows or doors, or the addi­tion ofa porch or deck. 

4. 	
Smoke alarms are not required to be intercon­nected when work is limited to the installation, alteration or repairs of plumbing or mechanical systems or the installation, alteration or repair of electrical systems which do not result in the removal ofinterior wall or ceiling finishes expos­ing the structure. 


1103.8.3 Power source. Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring pro­vided that such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms with integral strobes that are not equipped with bat­tery backup shall be connected to an emergency electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batter­ies are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a dis­connecting switch other than as required for overcurrent protection. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing buildings where no construc­tion is taking place. 

2. 
Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in buildings that are not served from a commercial power source. 

3. 	
Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing areas of buildings undergo­ing alterations or repairs that do not result in the removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes. 


4. 	Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated where repairs or alterations are limited 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
to the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as the replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of windows or doors, or the addi­tion ofa porch or deck. 
5. 	Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated when work is limited to the installation, alteration or repairs of plumbing or mechanical systems or the installation, alteration or repair of electrical systems which do not result in the removal ofinterior wall or ceiling finishes expos­ing the structure. 

1103.8.4 Group R-3.1. In all facilities housing a bedrid­
II 
den client, smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms shall be electrically interconnected so as to cause all smoke alarms to sound a distinctive alarm signal upon actuation of any single smoke alarm. Such alarm signal shall be audible through­out the facility at a minimal level of 15 db above ambient noise level. These devices need not be interconnected to any other fire alarm device, have a control panel, or be electrically supervised or provided with emergency power. 
1103.8.5 Additional provisions for existing Group R
II 
occupancies. 
1103.8.5.1 Existing Buildings housing Group R occu­

II 
pancies established prior to the effective date of these regulations may have their use continued if they con­form or are made to conform to provisions ofthese reg­ulations to the extent that reasonable and adequate life safety against the hazards offire, panic and explosion is substantially provided. Additional means of egress, the installation of automatic sprinkler systems, auto­matic fire alarm system or other life safety measures, may be required to provide reasonable and adequate safety. 
Note: It is the intent of this section that every exist­ing occupancy need not mandatorily conform with the requirements for new construction. Reasonable judgment in the application of requirements must be exercised by the enforcing agency. 
1103.8.5.2 For purposes of clarification, Health and 

II 
Safety Code, Section 13113.7 is repeated. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a smoke detector, approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Section 13114, shall be installed, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in each dwelling intended for human occupancy within the earliest applicable time period as follows: 

(1) 
For all dwelling units intended for human occupancy, upon the owner's application on or after January 1, 1985, for a permit for altera­tions, repairs, or additions, exceeding one thou­sand dollars ($1,000). 

(2) 
For all other dwelling units intended for human occupancy on or after January 1, 1987. 



CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
However, ifany local rule, regulation, or ordi­nance, adopted prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs ( 1) and (2) requires installation, in a dwelling unit intended for human occupancy, of smoke detector, which receive their power from the electrical system of the building and requires compliance with the local rule, regulation, or ordinance at a date sub­sequent to the dates specified in this section, the compliance date specified in the rule, regulation, or ordinance shall, but only with respect to the dwelling units specified in this section, take pre­cedence over the dates specified in this section. 
The State Fire Marshal may adopt regulations exempting dwellings intended for human occu­pancy with fire sprinkler systems from the provi­sions ofthis section, ifhe or she determines that a smoke detector is not reasonably necessary for fire safety in the occupancy. 
Unless prohibited by local rules, regulations, or ordinances, a battety-operated smoke detector which otherwise meets the standards adopted pursuant to Section 13114 for smoke detectors, satisfies the requirements ofthis section. 
(b) 
"Dwelling units intended for human occu­pancy, " as used in this section, includes a duplex, lodging house, apartment complex, hotel, motel, condominium, stock cooperative, time-share project, or dwelling unit ofa multiple-unit dwelling complex. For the purpose of this part, "dwelling units intended for human occupancy" does not include manufactured homes as defined in Section 18007, mobilehomes as defined in Section 18008, and com­mercial coaches as defined in Section 18001.8. 

(c) 
The owner of each dwelling unit subject to this section shall supply and install smoke detectors required by this section in the locations and in the manner set forth in the manufacturer's instructions, as approved by the State Fire Marshal's regula­tions. In the case of apartment complexes and other multiple-dwelling complexes, a smoke detector shall be installed in the common stairwells. All fire alarm warning systems supplemental to the smoke detector shall also be listed by the State Fire Marshal. 

(d) 
A high-rise structure, as defined in subdivision 

(b) 
of Section 13210 and regulated by Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 13210), and which is used for purposes other than as dwelling units intended for human occupancy, is exempt from the requirements ofthis section. 

(e) 
The owner shall be responsible for testing and maintaining detectors in hotels, motels, lodging houses, and common stairwells of apartment com­plexes and other multiple dwelling complexes. 


An owner or the owner's agent may enter any 
dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest room, 
and suite owned by the owner for the purpose of 
installing, repairing, testing, and maintaining single 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
station smoke detectors required by this section. Except in cases ofemergency, the owner or owner's agent shall give the tenants of each such unit, room, or suite reasonable notice in writing ofthe intention to enter and shall enter only during normal business hours. Twenty-four hours shall be presumed to be reasonable notice in absence ofevidence to the con­trary. 
The smoke detector shall be operable at the time that the tenant takes possession. The apartment complex tenant shall be responsible for notifying the manager or owner ifthe tenant becomes aware ofan inoperable smoke detector within his or her unit. The owner or authorized agent shall correct any reported deficiencies in the smoke detector and shall not be in violation of this section for a deficient smoke detector when he or she has not received notice of the deficiency. 
(f) 
A violation ofthis section is an infraction punish­able by a maximum fine of two hundred dollars ($200)for each offense. 

(g) 
This section shall not affect any rights which the parties may have under any other provision of law because of the presence or absence of a smoke detector. 

(h) 
This section shall not apply to the installation of smoke detectors in single-family dwellings or fac­tory-built housing which is regulated by Section 13113.8, as added by Assembly Bill No. 2285 of the 1983-84 Regular Session. 



1103.8.5.3 For purposes of clarification, Health and Safety Code Section 13113.8 is repeated. 
(a) 
On and after January 1, 1986, every single-fam­ily dwelling and factory-built housing, as defined in Section 19971, which is sold shall have an operable smoke detector. The detector shall be approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal and installed in accordance with the State Fire Marshal's regula­tions. Unless prohibited by local rules, regulations, or ordinances, a battery-operated smoke detector shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section. 

(b) 
On and after January 1, 1986, the transferor of any real property containing a singlejamily dwell­ing, as described in subdivision (a), whether the transfer is made by sale, exchange, or real property sales contract, as defined in Section 2985 of the Civil Code, shall deliver to the transferee a written statement indicating that the transferor is in compli­ance with this section. The disclosure statement shall be either included in the receipt for deposit in a real estate transaction, an addendum attached thereto, or a separate document. 

(c) 
The transferor shall deliver the statement referred to in subdivision (b) as soon as practicable before the transfer of title in the case of a sale or exchange, or prior to execution of the contract 



where the transfer is by a real property sales con­tract, as defined in Section 2985. or purposes ofthis subdivision, "delivery" means delivery in person or by mail to the transferee or transferor, or to any per­son authorized to act for him or her in the transac­tion, or to additional transferees who have requested delivery from the transferor in writing. Delivery to the spouse of a transferee or transferor shall be deemed delivery to a transferee or trans­feror, unless the contract states otherwise. 
(d) 
This section does not apply to any of the follow­ing: 

(
1) Transfers which are required to be preceded by the furnishing to a prospective transferee ofa copy of a public report pursuant to Section 11018.1 ofthe Business and Professions Code. 

(2) 
Transfers pursuant to court order, including, but not limited to, transfers ordered by a probate court in the administration ofan estate, transfers pursuant to a writ of execution, transfers by a trustee in bankruptcy, transfers by eminent domain, or transfers resulting from a decree for specific peiformance. 

(3) 
Transfers to a mortgagee by a mortgagor in default, transfers to a beneficiary of a deed of trust by a trustor in default, transfers by any fore­closure sale after default, transfers by any fore­closure sale after default in an obligation secured by a mortgage, or transfers by a sale under a power of sale after a default in an obligation secured by a deed oftrust or secured by any other instrument containing a power ofsale. 

(4) 
Transfers by a fiduciary in the course of the administration of a decedent's estate, guardian­ship, conservatorship, or trust. 

(5) 
Transfers from one co-owner to one or more co-owners. 

(6) 
Transfers made to a spouse, or to a person or persons in the lineal line of consanguinity of one or more ofthe transferors. 

(7) 
Transfers between spouses resulting from a decree of dissolution of a marriage, from a decree of legal separation, or from a property settlement agreement incidental to either ofthose decrees. 

(8) 
Transfers by the Controller in the course of administering the Unclaimed Property Law pro­vided for in Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 1500) of Title 10 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 

(9) 
Transfers under the provisions of Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 3691) or Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 3771) of Part 6 of Division 1 ofthe Revenue and Taxation Code. 


(e) 
No liability shall arise, nor any action be brought or maintained against any agent of any 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
party to a transfer of title, including any person or entity acting in the capacity of an escrow, for any error, inaccuracy, or omission relating to the disclo­sure required to be made by a transferor pursuant to this section. 
However, this subdivision does not apply to a licensee, as defined in Section 10011 ofthe Business and Professions Code, where the licensee partici­pates in the making of the disclosure required to be made pursuant to this section with actual knowledge ofthe falsity ofthe disclosure. 
(f) 
Except as otherwise provided in this section, this section shall not be deemed to create or imply a duty upon a licensee, as defined in Section 10011 of the Business and Professions Code, or upon any agent ofany party to a transfer of title, including any per­son or entity acting in the capacity ofan escrow, to monitor or ensure compliance with this section. 

(g) 
No transfer of title shall be invalidated on the basis ofa failure to comply with this section, and the exclusive remedy for the failure to comply with this section is an award ofactual damages not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100), exclusive of any court costs and attorney'sfees. 

(h) 
Local ordinances requiring smoke detectors in single-family dwellings may be enacted or amended. However, the ordinances shall satisfy the minimum requirements ofthis section. 

(i) 
For the purposes of this section, "single-family dwelling" does not include a manufactured home as defined in Section 18007, a mobilehome as defined in Section 18008, or a commercial coach as defined in Section 18001.8. 

(j) 
This section shall not apply to the installation of smoke detectors in dwellings intended for human occupancy, as defined in and regulated by Section 13113.7 of the Health and Safety Code, as added by Senate Bill No. 1448 in the 1983-84 Regular Ses­sion. 



1103.9 Carbon monoxide alarms. Existing Group I or R occupancies located in a building containing a fuel-burning appliance or a building which has an attached garage shall be equipped with single-station carbon monoxide alarms. The carbon monoxide alarms shall be listed as complying with UL 2034, and be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 720 and the manufacturer's instructions. An open parking garage, as defined in the California Building Code, or an enclosed parking garage ventilated in accordance with Section 404 of the California Mechanical Code shall not be deemed to be an attached garage. 
Exception: Sleeping units or dwelling units which do not themselves contain a fuel-burning appliance or have an attached garage, but which are located in a building with a fuel-burning appliance or an attached garage, need not be 
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
equipped with single-station carbon monoxide alarms pro­vided that: 
1. 	
The sleeping unit or dwelling unit is located more than one story above or below any story that con­tains a fuel-burning appliance or an attached garage; 

2. 	
The sleeping unit or dwelling unit is not connected by duct work or ventilation shafts to any room con­taining a fuel-burning appliance or to an attached garage; and 

3. 	
The building is provided with a common area car­bon monoxide alarm system. 



SECTION 1104 
MEANS OF EGRESS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 

1104.1 General. Means of egress in existing buildings shall comply with the minimum egress requirements when speci­fied in Table 1103.1 as further enumerated in Sections 1104.2 through 1104.24, and the building code that applied at the time of construction. Where the provisions of this chapter conflict with the building code that applied at the time of con­struction, the most restrictive provision shall apply. Existing buildings that were not required to comply with a building code at the time of construction shall comply with the mini­mum egress requirements when specified in Table 1103.1 as further enumerated in Sections 1104.2 through 1104.24. 
1104.2 Elevators, escalators and moving walks. Elevators, escalators and moving walks shall not be used as a compo­nent of a required means of egress. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Elevators used as an accessible means of egress where allowed by Section 1007.4. 

2. 	
Previously approved escalators and moving walks in existing buildings. 



1104.3 Exit sign illumination. Exit signs shall be internally or externally illuminated. The face of an exit sign illuminated from an external source shall have an intensity of not less than 5 footcandles (54 lux). Internally illuminated signs shall provide equivalent luminance and be listed for the purpose. 
Exception: Approved self-luminous signs that provide evenly illuminated letters shall have a minimum lumi­nance of 0.06 foot-lamberts (0.21 cd/m2). 
1104.4 Power source. Where emergency illumination is required in Section 1104.5, exit signs shall be visible under emergency illumination conditions. 
Exception: Approved signs that provide continuous illu­mination independent of external power sources are not required to be connected to an emergency electrical sys­tem. 
1104.5 Illumination emergency power. The power supply for means of egress illumination shall normally be provided by the premises' electrical supply. In the event of power sup­ply failure, illumination shall be automatically provided from 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
an emergency system for the following occupancies where such occupancies require two or more means of egress: 
1. 	Group A having 50 or more occupants. 
Exception: Assembly occupancies used exclu­sively as a place of worship and having an occupant load of less than 300. 

2. 	
Group B buildings three or more stories in height, buildings with 100 or more occupants above or below a level of exit discharge serving the occupants or build­ings with 1,000 or more total occupants. 

3. 	
Group E in interior stairs, corridors, windowless areas with student occupancy, shops and laboratories. 

4. 
Group F having more than 100 occupants. 

Exception: Buildings used only during daylight hours which are provided with windows for natural light in accordance with the California Building Code. 


5. 	
Group I. 

6. 	
GroupM. 

Exception: Buildings less than 3,000 square feet (279 m2) in gross sales area on one story only, excluding mezzanines. 


7. 
Group R-1. 

Exception: Where each sleeping unit has direct access to the outside of the building at grade. 


8. 	
Group R-2. 

Exception: Where each dwelling unit or sleeping unit has direct access to the outside of the building at grade. 


9. 	
Group R-4. 


Exception: Where each sleeping unit has direct 

access to the outside of the building at ground level. 1104.5.1 Emergency power duration and installation. In other than Group I-2, the emergency power system shall provide power for not less than 60 minutes and consist of storage batteries, unit equipment or an on-site generator. In Group I-2, the emergency power system shall provide power for not less than 90 minutes and consist of storage batteries, unit equipment or an on-site generator. The installation of the emergency power system shall be in accordance with Section 604. 
1104.6 Guards. Guards complying with this section shall be provided at the open sides of means of egress that are more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below. 
1104.6.1 Height of guards. Guards shall form a protective barrier not less than 42 inches (1067 mm) high. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Existing guards on the open side of stairs shall be not less than 30 inches (760 mm) high. 

2. 	
Existing guards within dwelling units shall be not less than 36 inches (910 mm) high. 

3. 	
Existing guards in assembly seating areas. 



1104.6.2 Opening limitations. Open guards shall have balusters or ornamental patterns such that a 6-inch-diame­ter (152 mm) sphere cannot pass through any opening up to a height of 34 inches (864 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
At elevated walking surfaces for access to, and use of, electrical, mechanical or plumbing sys­tems or equipment, guards shall have balusters or be of solid materials such that a sphere with a diameter of 21 inches (533 mm) cannot pass through any opening. 

2. 	
In occupancies in Group I-3, F, H or S, the clear distance between intermediate rails measured at right angles to the rails shall not exceed 21 inches (533 mm). 

3. 	
Approved existing open guards. 


1104.7 Size of doors. The minimum width of each door • opening shall be sufficient for the occupant load thereof and shall provide a clear width of not less than 28 inches (711 mm). Where this section requires a minimum clear width of 28 inches (711 mm) and a door opening includes two door leaves without a mullion, one leaf shall provide a clear open­ing width of 28 inches (711 mm). The maximum width of a swinging door leaf shall be 48 inches (1219 mm) nominal. Means of egress doors in an occupancy in Group I-2 used for the movement of beds shall provide a clear width not less than 41.5 inches (1054 mm). The height of doors shall not be less than 80 inches (2032 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The minimum and maximum width shall not apply to door openings that are not part of the required means of egress in occupancies in Groups R-2 and R-3. 

2. 	
Door openings to storage closets less than 10 square feet (0.93 m2) in area shall not be limited by the min­imum width. 

3. 	
Width of door leafs in revolving doors that comply with Section 1008.1.4.1 shall not be limited. 

4. 
Door openings within a dwelling unit shall not be less than 78 inches (1981 mm) in height. 

5. 	
Exterior door openings in dwelling units, other than the required exit door, shall not be less than 76 inches (1930 mm) in height. 

6. 	
Exit access doors serving a room not larger than 70 square feet (6.5 m2) shall be not less than 24 inches (610 mm) in door width. 


1104.8 Opening force for doors. The opening force for inte­rior side-swinging doors without closers shall not exceed a 5­pound (22 N) force. For other side-swinging, sliding and folding doors, the door latch shall release when subjected to a force of not more than 15 pounds (66 N). The door shall be set in motion when subjected to a force not exceeding 30 pounds (133 N). The door shall swing to a full-open position when subjected to a force of not more than 50 pounds (222 N). Forces shall be applied to the latch side. 
1104.9 Revolving doors. Revolving doors shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
A revolving door shall not be located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the foot or top of stairs or escalators. A dispersal area shall be provided between the stairs or escalators and the revolving doors. 

2. 	
The revolutions per minute for a revolving door shall not exceed those shown in Table 1104.9. 

3. 	
Each revolving door shall have a conforming side­hinged swinging door in the same wall as the revolving door and within 10 feet (3048 mm). 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
A revolving door is permitted to be used with­out an adjacent swinging door for street-floor elevator lobbies provided a stairway, escalator or door from other parts of the building does not discharge through the lobby and the lobby does not have any occupancy or use other than as a means of travel between elevators and a street. 

2. 	
Existing revolving doors where the number of revolving doors does not exceed the number of swinging doors within 20 feet (6096 mm). 



TABLE 1104.9 
REVOLVING DOOR SPEEDS 


INSIDE DIAMETER (feet-inches)  POWER-DRIVEN-TYPE SPEED CONTROL (rpm)  MANUAL-TYPE SPEED CONTROL (rpm)  
6-6  11  12  
7-0  10  11  
7-6  9  11  
8-0  9  10  
8-6  8  9  
9-0  8  9  
9-6  7  8  
10-0  7  8  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
1104.9.1 Egress component. A revolving door used as a component of a means of egress shall comply with Section 1104.9 and all of the following conditions: 
1. 	
Revolving doors shall not be given credit for more than 50 percent of the required egress capacity. 

2. 	
Each revolving door shall be credited with not more than a 50-person capacity. 

3. 	
Revolving doors shall be capable of being collapsed when a force of not more than 130 pounds (578 N) is applied within 3 inches (76 mm) of the outer edge of a wing. 



1104.10 Stair dimensions for existing stairs. Existing stairs in buildings shall be permitted to remain if the rise does not exceed 81inches (210 mm) and the run is not less than 9 
/4 

inches (229 mm). Existing stairs can be rebuilt. 
Exception: Other stairs approved by the fire code official. 

CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
1104.10.1 Dimensions for replacement stairs. The replacement of an existing stairway in a structure shall not be required to comply with the new stairway requirements of Section 1009 where the existing space and construction will not allow a reduction in pitch or slope. 

1104.11 Winders. Existing winders shall be allowed to remain in use if they have a minimum tread depth of 6 inches (152 mm) and a minimum tread depth of 9 inches (229 mm) at a point 12 inches (305 mm) from the narrowest edge. 
1104.12 Circular stairways. Existing circular stairs shall be allowed to continue in use provided the minimum depth of tread is 10 inches (254 mm) and the smallest radius shall not be less than twice the width of the stairway. 
1104.13 Stairway handrails. Stairways shall have handrails on at least one side. Handrails shall be located so that all por­tions of the stairway width required for egress capacity are within 44 inches (1118 mm) of a handrail. 
Exception: Aisle stairs provided with a center handrail are not required to have additional handrails. 
1104.13.1 Height. Handrail height, measured above stair tread nosings, shall be uniform, not less than 30 inches (762 mm) and not more than 42 inches (1067 mm). 

1104.14 Slope of ramps. Ramp runs utilized as part of a means of egress shall have a running slope not steeper than one unit vertical in 10 units horizontal (10-percent slope). The slope of other ramps shall not be steeper than one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12.5-percent slope). 
1104.15 Width of ramps. Existing ramps are permitted to have a minimum width of 30 inches (762 mm) but not less than the width required for the number of occupants served as determined by Section 1005.1. 
1104.16 Fire escape stairs. Fire escape stairs shall comply with Sections 1104.16.1 through 1104.16.7. 
1104.16.1 Existing means of egress. Fire escape stairs shall be permitted in existing buildings but shall not con­stitute more than 50 percent of the required exit capacity. 
1104.16.2 Protection of openings. Openings within 10 feet (3048 mm) of fire escape stairs shall be protected by opening protectives having a minimum \-hour fire pro­tection rating. 
Exception: In buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system, opening protec­tion is not required. 

1104.16.3 Dimensions. Fire escape stairs shall meet the minimum width, capacity, riser height and tread depth as specified in Section 1104.10. 
1104.16.4 Access. Access to a fire escape stair from a cor­ridor shall not be through an intervening room. Access to a fire escape stair shall be from a door or window meeting the criteria of Section 1005.1. Access to a fire escape stair shall be directly to a balcony, landing or platform. These shall be no higher than the floor or window sill level and no lower than 8 inches (203 mm) below the floor level or 18 inches (457 mm) below the window sill. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
1104.16.5 Materials and strength. Components of fire escape stairs shall be constructed of noncombustible mate­rials. Fire escape stairs and balconies shall support the dead load plus a live load of not less than 100 pounds per square foot (4.78 kN/m2). Fire escape stairs and balconies shall be provided with a top and intermediate handrail on each side. 
1104.16.5.1 Examination. Fire escape stairs and balco­nies shall be examined for structural adequacy and safety in accordance with Section 1104.16.5 by a regis­tered design professional or others acceptable to the fire code official every five years, or as required by the fire code official. An inspection report shall be submitted to the fire code official after such examination. 
1104.16.6 Termination. The lowest balcony shall not be more than 18 feet (5486 mm) from the ground. Fire escape stairs shall extend to the ground or be provided with coun­terbalanced stairs reaching the ground. 
Exception: For fire escape stairs serving 10 or fewer occupants, an approved fire escape ladder is allowed to serve as the termination. 
1104.16.7 Maintenance. Fire escapes shall be kept clear and unobstructed at all times and shall be maintained in good working order. 
1104.17 Corridors. Conidors serving an occupant load greater than 30 and the openings therein shall provide an effective barrier to resist the movement of smoke. Transoms, louvers, doors and other openings shall be kept closed or self­closing. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Conidors in occupancies other than in Group H, which are equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 

2. 	
Patient room doors in corridors in occupancies in Group I-2 where smoke baniers are provided in accordance with the California Building Code. 

3. 	
Conidors in occupancies in Group E where each room utilized for instruction or assembly has at least one-half of the required means of egress doors open­ing directly to the exterior of the building at ground level. 

4. 
Conidors that are in accordance with the California Building Code. 


1104.17.1 Corridor openings. Openings in corridor walls shall comply with the requirements of the California Building Code. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where 20-minute fire door assemblies are required, solid wood doors at least 1.75 inches ( 44 mm) thick or insulated steel doors are allowed. 

2. 	
Openings protected with fixed wire glass set in steel frames. 


3. 	
Openings covered with 0.5-inch (12.7 mm) gyp­sum wallboard or 0.75-inch (19.1 mm) plywood on the room side. 

4. 
Opening protection 	is not required when the building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 


1104.17.2 Dead ends. Where more than one exit or exit access doorway is required, the exit access shall be ananged such that dead ends do not exceed the limits specified in Table 1104.17.2. 
Exception: A dead-end passageway or conidor shall not be limited in length where the length of the dead­end passageway or cotTidor is less than 2.5 times the least width of the dead-end passageway or corridor. 
1104.18 Exit access travel distance. Exits shall be located so that the maximum length of exit access travel, measured from the most remote point to an approved exit along the natural and unobstructed path of egress travel, does not exceed the distances given in Table 1104.17.2. 
1104.19 Common path of egress travel. The common path of egress travel shall not exceed the distances given in Table 1104.17.2. 
1104.20 Stairway discharge identification. An interior exit stairway or ramp which continues below its level of exit dis­charge shall be ananged and marked to make the direction of egress to a public way readily identifiable. 
Exception: Stairs that continue one-half story beyond their levels of exit discharge need not be provided with barriers where the exit discharge is obvious. 
1104.21 Exterior stairway protection. Exterior exit stairs shall be separated from the interior of the building as required in Section 1026.6. Openings shall be limited to those neces­sary for egress from normally occupied spaces. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required for buildings that are two stories or less above grade where the level of exit discharge serv­ing such occupancies is the first story above grade. 

2. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required where the exterior stairway is served by an exterior balcony that connects two remote exterior stairways or other approved exits, with a perimeter that is not less than 50 percent open. To be consid­ered open, the opening shall be a minimum of 50 percent of the height of the enclosing wall, with the top of the opening not less than 7 feet (2134 mm) above the top of the balcony. 

3. 	
Separation from the interior of the building is not required for an exterior stairway located in a build­ing or structure that is permitted to have unenclosed interior stairways in accordance with Section 1022. 

4. 
Separation from the interior 	of the building is not required for exterior stairways connected to open­ended corridors, provided that: 


4.1. The 	building, including corridors and stairs, is equipped throughout with an auto­matic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 
4.2. The 	open-ended corridors comply with Section 1018. 
4.3. The open-ended corridors are connected on each end to an exterior exit stairway com­plying with Section 1026. 
4.4. At any location in an open-ended corridor where a change of direction exceeding 45 degrees (0.79 rad) occurs, a clear opening of not less than 35 square feet (3 m2) or an exterior stairway shall be provided. Where clear openings are provided, they shall be 

CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS 
located so as to minimize the accumulation of smoke or toxic gases. 

1104.22 Minimum aisle width. The minimum clear width of 
aisles shall be: 
1. 	Forty-two inches (1067 mm) for aisle stairs having seating on each side. 
Exception: Thirty-six inches (914 mm) where the aisle serves less than 50 seats. 

2. 	
Thirty-six inches (914 mm) for stepped aisles having seating on only one side. 

Exception: Thirty inches (760 mm) for catchment areas serving not more than 60 seats. 


3. 	
Twenty inches (508 mm) between a stepped aisle hand­rail or guard and seating when the aisle is subdivided by the handrail. 


TABLE 1104.17.2 
COMMON PATH, DEAD-END AND TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITS (by occupancy) 


OCCUPANCY  COMMON PATH LIMIT  DEAD-END LIMIT  TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMIT  
Unsprinklered (feet)  Sprinklered (feet)  Unsprinklered (feet)  Sprinklered (feet)  Unsprinklered (feet)  Sprinklered (feet)  
Group A  20175"  20175"  20b  20b  200  250  
Group B1  75  100  50  50  200  300  
GroupE  75  75  20  50  200  250  
Group F-1, S-1 ct, 1  75  100  50  50  200  250  
Group F-2, S-2ct.r  75  100  50  50  300  400  
Group H-1  25  25  0  0  75  75  
Group H-2  50  100  0  0  75  100  
Group H-3  50  100  20  20  100  150  
Group H-4  75  75  20  20  150  175  
Group H-5  75  75  20  50  150  200  
Group 1-1  75  75  20  50  200  250  
Group 1-2 (Health care)  NRe  NR"  NR  NR  150  200°  
Group 1-3 (Detention and correctional-Use Conditions II, III, IV, V)  100  100  NR  NR  150°  200'  
Group I-4 (Day care centers)  NR  NR  20  20  200  250  
Group M (Covered or open mall)  75  100  50  50  200  400  
Group M (Mercantile)  75  100  50  50  200  250  
Group R-1 (Hotels)  75  75  50  50  200  250  
Group R-2 (Apartments)  75  125  50  50  200  250  
Group R-3 (One-and two-family)  NR  NR  NR  NR  NR  NR  
Group R-4 (Residential care/assisted living)  NR  NR  NR  NR  NR  NR  
Group U1  75  100  20  50  300  400  

NR =No requirements. 
For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2• 

a. 
20 feet for common path serving 50 or more persons; 75 feet for common path serving less than 50 persons. 

b. 
See Section 1028.9.5 for dead-end aisles in Group A occupancies. 

c. 	
This dimension is for the total travel distance, assuming incremental portions have fully utilized their allowable maximums. For travel distance within the room, and from the room exit access door to the exit, see the appropriate occupancy chapter. 

d. 
See the California Building Code for special requirements on spacing of doors in aircraft hangars. 

e. 	
Any patient sleeping room, or any suite that includes patient sleeping rooms, of more than 1,000 square feet shall have at least two exit access doors placed a distance apart equal to not less than one-third of the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the patient sleeping room or suite to be served, measured in a straight line between exit access doors. 

f. 	
Where a tenant space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30, the length of a common path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
4. 	
Forty-two inches (1067 mm) for level or ramped aisles having seating on both sides. 

Exception: Thirty-six inches (914 mm) where the aisle serves less than 50 seats. 


5. 	
Thirty-six inches (914 mm) for level or ramped aisles having seating on only one side. 

Exception: Thirty inches (760 mm) for catchment areas serving not more than 60 seats. 


6. 	
Twenty-three inches (584 mm) between a stepped stair handrail and seating where an aisle does not serve more than five rows on one side. 


1104.23 Stairway floor number signs. Existing stairs shall be marked in accordance with Section 1022.9. 
1104.24 Egress path markings. Existing high-rise buildings of Group A, B, E, I, M and R-1 occupancies shall be provided with luminous egress path markings in accordance with Sec­tion 1024. 
Exception: Open, unenclosed stairwells in historic build­ings designated as historic under a state or local historic preservation program. 
SECTION 1105 REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR OPERATIONS 
1105.1 Tire storage yards. Existing tire storage yards shall be provided with fire apparatus access roads in accordance with Sections 1105.1.1 and 1105 .1.2. 
1105.1.1 Access to piles. Access roadways shall be within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of any point in the storage yard where storage piles are located, at least 20 feet (6096 mm) from any storage pile. 
1105.1.2 Location within piles. Fire apparatus access roads shall be located within all pile clearances identified in Section 3405.4 and within all fire breaks required in Section 3405.5. 
SECTION 1106 GROUP A PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM 
II 	1106.1 Group A occupancy public address system. Existing buildings or structures intended for public assemblies of 10,000 or more persons, which, on or after January 1, 1991, have or subsequently have installed a public address system, shall have an emergency backup power system for the public address system. 
CHAPTERS 12 through 19 
RESERVED 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 20-AVIATION FACILITIES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 T-19* SFM  1  2 1/AC HCD DSA  AC  ss  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Californra Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part IV-Special Occupancies and Operations 
CHAPTER 20 
AVIATION FACILITIES 
SECTION 2001 
GENERAL 


2001.1 Scope. Airports, heliports, helistops and aircraft han­gars shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
2001.2 Regulations not covered. Regulations not specifi­cally contained herein pertaining to airports, aircraft mainte­nance, aircraft hangars and appurtenant operations shall be in accordance with nationally recognized standards. 
2001.3 Permits. For permits to operate aircraft-refueling vehicles, application of flammable or combustible finishes and hot work, see Section 105.6. 
SECTION 2002 
DEFINITIONS 


2002.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
AIRCRAFT OPERATION AREA (AOA). 
AIRPORT. 
HELIPORT. 
HELISTOP. 
SECTION 2003 
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS 


2003.1 Sources of ignition. Open flames, flame-producing devices and other sources of ignition shall not be permitted in a hangar, except in approved locations or in any location within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of an aircraft-fueling operation. 
2003.2 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited in aircraft­refueling vehicles, aircraft hangars and aircraft operation areas used for cleaning, paint removal, painting operations or fueling. "No Smoking" signs shall be provided in accordance with Section 310. 
Exception: Designated and approved smoking areas. 

2003.3 Housekeeping. The aircraft operation area (AOA) and related areas shall be kept free from combustible debris at all times. 
2003.4 Fire department access. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained in accordance with Chapter 
5. Fire apparatus access roads and aircraft parking positions shall be designed in a manner so as to preclude the possibility of fire vehicles traveling under any portion of a parked air­craft. 
2003.5 Dispensing of flammable and combustible liquids. The dispensing, transferring and storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 57. Aircraft motor vehicle fuel-dispensing facili­ties shall be in accordance with Chapter 23. 
2003.6 Combustible storage. Combustible materials stored in aircraft hangars shall be stored in approved locations and containers. 
2003.7 Hazardous material storage. Hazardous materials shall be stored in accordance with Chapter 50. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 2004 
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE 


2004.1 Transferring flammable and combustible liquids. Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be dispensed into or removed from a container, tank, vehicle or aircraft except in approved locations. 
2004.2 Application of flammable and combustible liquid finishes. The application of flammable or Class II combusti­ble liquid finishes is prohibited unless both of the following conditions are met: 
1. 	
The application of the liquid finish is accomplished in an approved location. 

2. 	
The application methods and procedures are in accor­dance with Chapter 24. 


2004.3 Cleaning parts. Class IA flammable liquids shall not be used to clean aircraft, aircraft parts or aircraft engines. Cleaning with other flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Section 5705.3.6. 
2004.4 Spills. This section shall apply to spills of flammable and combustible liquids and other hazardous materials. Fuel spill control shall also comply with Section 2006.11. 
2004.4.1 Cessation of work. Activities in the affected area not related to the mitigation of the spill shall cease until the spilled material has been removed or the hazard has been mitigated. 
2004.4.2 Vehicle movement. Aircraft or other vehicles shall not be moved through the spill area until the spilled material has been removed or the hazard has been miti­gated. 
2004.4.3 Mitigation. Spills shall be reported, documented and mitigated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and Section 5003.3. 
2004.5 Running engines. Aircraft engines shall not be run in aircraft hangars except in approved engine test areas. 
2004.6 Open flame. Repairing of aircraft requiring the use of open flames, spark-producing devices or the heating of parts above 500°F (260°C) shall only be done outdoors or in an area complying with the provisions of the California Building Code for a Group F-1 occupancy. 
SECTION 2005 
PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS 


2005.1 General. Portable fire extinguishers suitable for flam­mable or combustible liquid and electrical-type fires shall be provided as specified in Sections 2005.2 through 2005.6 and Section 906. Extinguishers required by this section shall be inspected and maintained in accordance with Section 906. 
2005.2 On towing vehicles. Vehicles used for towing aircraft shall be equipped with a minimum of one listed portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 and having a mini­mum rating of 20-B:C. 
2005.3 On welding apparatus. Welding apparatus shall be equipped with a minimum of one listed portable fire extin­guisher complying with Section 906 and having a minimum rating of 2-A:20-B:C. 
2005.4 On aircraft fuel-servicing tank vehicles. Aircraft fuel-servicing tank vehicles shall be equipped with a mini­mum of two listed portable fire extinguishers complying with Section 906, each having a minimum rating of 20-B:C. A portable fire extinguisher shall be readily accessible from either side of the vehicle. 
2005.5 On hydrant fuel-servicing vehicles. Hydrant fuel­servicing vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of one listed portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906, and having a minimum rating of 20-B:C. 
2005.6 At fuel-dispensing stations. Portable fire extinguish­ers at fuel-dispensing stations shall be located such that pumps or dispensers are not more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from one such extinguisher. Fire extinguishers shall be pro­vided as follows: 
1. 	
Where the open-hose discharge capacity of the fueling system is not more than 200 gallons per minute (13 Lis), a minimum of two listed portable fire extinguishers complying with Section 906 and having a minimum rat­ing of 20-B:C shall be provided. 

2. 	
Where the open-hose discharge capacity of the fueling system is more than 200 gallons per minute (13 Lis) but not more than 350 gallons per minute (22 Lis), a mini­mum of one listed wheeled extinguisher complying with Section 906 and having a minimum extinguishing rating of 80-B:C, and a minimum agent capacity of 125 pounds (57 kg), shall be provided. 

3. 	
Where the open-hose discharge capacity of the fueling system is more than 350 gallons per minute (22 Lis), a minimum of two listed wheeled extinguishers comply­ing with Section 906 and having a minimum rating of 80-B:C each, and a minimum capacity agent of 125 pounds (57 kg) of each, shall be provided. 


2005.7 Fire extinguisher access. Portable fire extinguishers required by this chapter shall be accessible at all times. Where necessary, provisions shall be made to clear accumu­lations of snow, ice and other forms of weather-induced obstructions. 
2005.7.1 Cabinets. Cabinets and enclosed compartments used to house portable fire extinguishers shall be clearly marked with the words FIRE EXTINGUISHER in letters at least 2 inches (51 mm) high. Cabinets and compart­ments shall be readily accessible at all times. 
2005.8 Reporting use. Use of a fire extinguisher under any circumstances shall be reported to the manager of the airport and the fire code official immediately after use. 
SECTION 2006 
AIRCRAFT FUELING 


2006.1 Aircraft motor vehicle fuel-dispensing facilities. Aircraft motor vehicle fuel-dispensing facilities shall be in accordance with Chapter 23. 
2006.2 Airport fuel systems. Airport fuel systems shall be designed and constructed in accordance with NFP A 407. 
2006.3 Construction of aircraft-fueling vehicles and acces­sories. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall comply with this sec­tion and shall be designed and constructed in accordance with NFPA 407. 
2006.3.1 Transfer apparatus. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be equipped and maintained with an approved trans­fer apparatus. 
2006.3.1.1 Internal combustion type. Where such transfer apparatus is operated by an individual unit of the internal-combustion-motor type, such power unit shall be located as remotely as practicable from pumps, piping, meters, air eliminators, water separators, hose reels and similar equipment, and shall be housed in a separate compartment from any of the aforementioned items. The fuel tank in connection therewith shall be suitably designed and installed, and the maximum fuel capacity shall not exceed 5 gallons (19 L) where the tank is installed on the engine. The exhaust pipe, muf­fler and tail pipe shall be shielded. 
2006.3.1.2 Gear operated. Where operated by gears or chains, the gears, chains, shafts, bearings, housing and all parts thereof shall be of an approved design and shall be installed and maintained in an approved man­ner. 
2006.3.1.3 Vibration isolation. Flexible connections for the purpose of eliminating vibration are allowed if the material used therein is designed, installed and maintained in an approved manner, provided such con­nections do not exceed 24 inches (610 mm) in length. 
2006.3.2 Pumps. Pumps of a positive-displacement type shall be provided with a bypass relief valve set at a pres­sure of not more than 35 percent in excess of the normal working pressure of such unit. Such units shall be equipped and maintained with a pressure gauge on the dis­charge side of the pump. 
2006.3.3 Dispensing hoses and nozzles. Hoses shall be designed for the transferring of hydrocarbon liquids and shall not be any longer than necessary to provide efficient fuel transfer operations. Hoses shall be equipped with an approved shutoff nozzle. Fuel-transfer nozzles shall be self-closing and designed to be actuated by hand pressure only. Notches and other devices shall not be used for hold­ing a nozzle valve handle in the open position. Nozzles shall be equipped with a bonding cable complete with proper attachment for aircraft to be serviced. 
2006.3.4 Protection of electrical equipment. Electric wiring, switches, lights and other sources of ignition, when located in a compartment housing piping, pumps, air eliminators, water separators, hose reels or similar equip­ment, shall be enclosed in a vapor-tight housing. Electrical motors located in such a compartment shall be of a type approved for use as specified in NFP A 70. 
2006.3.5 Venting of equipment compartments. Com­partments housing piping, pumps, air eliminators, water separators, hose reels and similar equipment shall be ade­quately ventilated at floor level or within the floor itself. 
AVIATION FACILITIES 

2006.3.6 Accessory equipment. Ladders, hose reels and similar accessory equipment shall be of an approved type and constructed substantially as follows: 
1. 	
Ladders constructed of noncombustible material are allowed to be used with or attached to aircraft-fuel­ing vehicles, provided the manner of attachment or use of such ladders is approved and does not consti­tute an additional fire or accident hazard in the oper­ation of such fueling vehicles. 

2. 
Hose reels used in connection with fueling vehicles shall be constructed of noncombustible materials and shall be provided with a packing gland or other device which will preclude fuel leakage between reels and fuel manifolds. 



2006.3.7 Electrical bonding provisions. Transfer appara­tus shall be metallically interconnected with tanks, chassis, axles and springs of aircraft-fueling vehicles. 
2006.3.7.1 Bonding cables. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be provided and maintained with a substantial heavy-duty electrical cable of sufficient length to be bonded to the aircraft to be serviced. Such cable shall be metallically connected to the transfer apparatus or chassis of the aircraft-fueling vehicle on one end and shall be provided with a suitable metal clamp on the other end, to be fixed to the aircraft. 
2006.3.7.2 Bonding cable protection. The bonding cable shall be bare or have a transparent protective sleeve and be stored on a reel or in a compartment pro­vided for no other purpose. It shall be carried in such a manner that it will not be subjected to sharp kinks or accidental breakage under conditions of general use. 

2006.3.8 Smoking. Smoking in aircraft-fueling vehicles is prohibited. Signs to this effect shall be conspicuously posted in the driver's compartment of all fueling vehicles. 
2006.3.9 Smoking equipment. Smoking equipment such as cigarette lighters and ash trays shall not be provided in aircraft-fueling vehicles. 
2006.4 Operation, maintenance and use of aircraft-fueling vehicles. The operation, maintenance and use of aircraft-fuel­ing vehicles shall be in accordance with Sections 2006.4.1 through 2006.4.4 and other applicable provisions of this chapter. 
2006.4.1 Proper maintenance. Aircraft-fueling vehicles and all related equipment shall be properly maintained and kept in good repair. Accumulations of oil, grease, fuel and other flammable or combustible materials is prohibited. Maintenance and servicing of such equipment shall be accomplished in approved areas. 
2006.4.2 Vehicle integrity. Tanks, pipes, hoses, valves and other fuel delivery equipment shall be maintained leak free at all times. 
2006.4.3 Removal from service. Aircraft-fueling vehicles and related equipment which are in violation of Section 2006.4.1 or 2006.4.2 shall be immediately defueled and removed from service and shall not be returned to service until proper repairs have been made. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2006.4.4 Operators. Aircraft-fueling vehicles that are operated by a person, firm or corporation other than the permittee or the permittee's authorized employee shall be provided with a legible sign visible from outside the vehi­cle showing the name of the person, firm or corporation operating such unit. 
2006.5 Fueling and defueling. Aircraft-fueling and defuel­ing operations shall be in accordance with Sections 2006.5.1 through 2006.5.5. 
2006.5.1 Positioning of aircraft-fueling vehicles. Air­craft-fueling vehicles shall not be located, parked or per­mitted to stand in a position where such unit would obstruct egress from an aircraft should a fire occur during fuel-transfer operations. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall not be located, parked or permitted to stand under any portion of an aircraft. 
Exception: Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be allowed to be located under aircraft wings during underwing fueling of turbine-engine powered aircraft. 
2006.5.1.1 Fueling vehicle egress. A clear path shall be maintained for aircraft-fueling vehicles to provide for prompt and timely egress from the fueling area. 
2006.5.1.2 Aircraft vent openings. A clear space of at least 10 feet (3048 mm) shall be maintained between aircraft fuel-system vent openings and any part or por­tion of an aircraft-fueling vehicle. 
2006.5.1.3 Parking. Prior to leaving the cab, the air­craft-fueling vehicle operator shall ensure that the park­ing brake has been set. At least two chock blocks not less than 5 inches by 5 inches by 12 inches (127 mm by 127 mm by 305 mm) in size and dished to fit the con­tour of the tires shall be utilized and positioned in such a manner as to preclude movement of the vehicle in any direction. 
2006.5.2 Electrical bonding. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be electrically bonded to the aircraft being fueled or defueled. Bonding connections shall be made prior to making fueling connections and shall not be disconnected until the fuel-transfer operations are completed and the fueling connections have been removed. 
Where a hydrant service vehicle or cart is used for fuel­ing, the hydrant coupler shall be connected to the hydrant system prior to bonding the fueling equipment to the air­craft. 
2006.5.2.1 Conductive hose. In addition to the bond­ing cable required by Section 2006.5.2, conductive hose shall be used for all fueling operations. 
2006.5.2.2 Bonding conductors on transfer nozzles. Transfer nozzles shall be equipped with approved bonding conductors which shall be clipped or otherwise positively engaged with the bonding attachment pro­vided on the aircraft adjacent to the fuel tank cap prior to removal of the cap. 
Exception: In the case of overwing fueling where no appropriate bonding attachment adjacent to the fuel fill port has been provided on the aircraft, the fueling operator shall touch the fuel tank cap with the nozzle spout prior to removal of the cap. The nozzle shall be kept in contact with the fill port until fueling is completed. 

2006.5.2.3 Funnels. Where required, metal funnels are allowed to be used during fueling operations. Direct contact between the fueling receptacle, the funnel and the fueling nozzle shall be maintained during the fuel­ing operation. 
2006.5.3 Training. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be attended and operated only by persons instructed in meth­ods of proper use and operation and who are qualified to use such fueling vehicles in accordance with minimum safety requirements. 
2006.5.3.1 Fueling hazards. Fuel-servicing personnel shall know and understand the hazards associated with each type of fuel dispensed by the airpmt fueling-sys­tem operator. 
2006.5.3.2 Fire safety training. Employees of fuel agents who fuel aircraft, accept fuel shipments or other­wise handle fuel shall receive approved fire safety training. 
2006.5.3.2.1 Fire extinguisher training. Fuel-ser­vicing personnel shall receive approved training in the operation of fire-extinguishing equipment. 
2006.5.3.2.2 Documentation. The airport fueling­system operator shall maintain records of all training administered to its employees. These records shall be made available to the fire code official on request. 
2006.5.4 Transfer personnel. During fuel-transfer opera­tions, a qualified person shall be in control of each transfer nozzle and another qualified person shall be in immediate control of the fuel-pumping equipment to shut off or other­wise control the flow of fuel from the time fueling opera­tions are begun until they are completed. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
For underwing refueling, the person stationed at the point of fuel intake is not required. 

2. 	
For overwing refueling, the person stationed at the fuel pumping equipment shall not be required where the person at the fuel dispensing device is within 75 feet (22 800 mm) of the emergency shutoff device; is not on the wing of the aircraft and has a clear and unencumbered path to the fuel pumping equipment; and the fuel dispensing line does not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm) in length. 


The fueling operator shall monitor the panel of the fuel­ing equipment and the aircraft control panel during pres­sure fueling or shall monitor the fill port during overwing fueling. 
2006.5.5 Fuel flow control. Fuel flow-control valves shall be operable only by the direct hand pressure of the opera­tor. Removal of the operator's hand pressure shall cause an immediate cessation of the flow of fuel. 
2006.6 Emergency fuel shutoff. Emergency fuel shutoff controls and procedures shall comply with Sections 2006.6.1 through 2006.6.4. 
2006.6.1 Accessibility. Emergency fuel shutoff controls shall be readily accessible at all times when the fueling system is being operated. 
2006.6.2 Notification of the fire department. The fuel­ing-system operator shall establish a procedure by which the fire department will be notified in the event of an acti­vation of an emergency fuel shutoff control. 
2006.6.3 Determining cause. Prior to reestablishment of normal fuel flow, the cause of fuel shutoff conditions shall be determined and corrected. 
2006.6.4 Testing. Emergency fuel shutoff devices shall be operationally tested at intervals not exceeding three months. The fueling-system operator shall maintain suit­able records of these tests. 

2006.7 Protection of hoses. Before an aircraft-fueling vehi­cle is moved, fuel transfer hoses shall be properly placed on the approved reel or in the compartment provided, or stored on the top decking of the fueling vehicle if proper height rail is provided for security and protection of such equipment. Fuel-transfer hose shall not be looped or draped over any part of the fueling vehicle, except as herein provided. Fuel-trans­fer hose shall not be dragged when such fueling vehicle is moved from one fueling position to another. 
2006.8 Loading and unloading. Aircraft-fueling vehicles shall be loaded only at an approved loading rack. Such load­ing racks shall be in accordance with Section 5706.5.1.12. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Aircraft-refueling units may be loaded from the fuel tanks of an aircraft during defueling operations. 

2. 	
Fuel transfer between tank vehicles is allowed to be performed in accordance with Section 5706.6 when the operation is at least 200 feet (60 960 mm) from an aircraft. 



The fuel cargo of such units shall be unloaded only by approved transfer apparatus into the fuel tanks of aircraft, underground storage tanks or approved gravity storage tanks. 
2006.9 Passengers. Passenger traffic is allowed during the time fuel transfer operations are in progress, provided the fol­lowing provisions are strictly enforced by the owner of the aircraft or the owner's authorized employee: 
1. 	
Smoking and producing an open flame in the cabin of the aircraft or the outside thereof within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of such aircraft shall be prohibited. 

A qualified employee of the aircraft owner shall be responsible for seeing that the passengers are not allowed to smoke when remaining aboard the aircraft or while going across the ramp from the gate to such aircraft, or vice versa. 

2. 
Passengers shall not 	be permitted to linger about the plane, but shall proceed directly between the loading gate and the aircraft. 


AVIATION FACILITIES 
3. 
Passenger loading stands 	or walkways shall be left in loading position until all fuel transfer operations are completed. 

4. 
Fuel transfer operations shall not be performed on the main exit side of any aircraft containing passengers except when the owner of such aircraft or a capable and qualified employee of such owner remains inside the aircraft to direct and assist the escape of such passen­gers through regular and emergency exits in the event fire should occur during fuel transfer operations. 



2006.10 Sources of ignition. Smoking and producing open flames within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of a point where fuel is being transferred shall be prohibited. Electrical and motor­driven devices shall not be connected to or disconnected from an aircraft at any time fueling operations are in progress on such aircraft. 
2006.11 Fuel spill prevention and procedures. Fuel spill prevention and the procedures for handling spills shall com­ply with Sections 2006.11.1 through 2006.11.7. 
2006.11.1 Fuel-service equipment maintenance. Air­craft fuel-servicing equipment shall be maintained and kept free from leaks. Fuel-servicing equipment that mal­functions or leaks shall not be continued in service. 
2006.11.2 Transporting fuel nozzles. Fuel nozzles shall be carried utilizing appropriate handles. Dragging fuel nozzles along the ground shall be prohibited. 
2006.11.3 Drum fueling. Fueling from drums or other containers having a capacity greater than 5 gallons (19 L) shall be accomplished with the use of an approved pump. 
2006.11.4 Fuel spill procedures. The fueling-system operator shall establish procedures to follow in the event of a fuel spill. These procedures shall be comprehensive and shall provide for at least all of the following: 
1. 	
Upon observation of a fuel spill, the aircraft-fueling operator shall immediately stop the delivery of fuel by releasing hand pressure from the fuel flow-con­trol valve. 

2. 
Failure of the fuel control valve to stop the contin­ued spillage of fuel shall be cause for the activation of the appropriate emergency fuel shutoff device. 

3. 	
A supervisor for the fueling-system operator shall respond to the fuel spill area immediately. 


2006.11.5 Notification of the fire department. The fire department shall be notified of any fuel spill which is con­sidered a hazard to people or property or which meets one or more of the following criteria: 
1. 	
Any dimension of the spill is greater than 10 feet (3048 mm). 

2. 	
The spill area is greater than 50 square feet (4.65 m2). 

3. 
The fuel flow is continuous in nature. 


2006.11.6 Investigation required. An investigation shall be conducted by the fueling-system operator of all spills requiring notification of the fire department. The investi­gation shall provide conclusive proof of the cause and ver­ification of the appropriate use of emergency procedures. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Where it is determined that corrective measures are neces­sary to prevent future incidents of the same nature, they shall be implemented immediately. 
2006.11.7 Multiple fuel delivery vehicles. Simultaneous delivery of fuel from more than one aircraft-fueling vehi­cle to a single aircraft-fueling manifold is prohibited unless proper backflow prevention devices are installed to prevent fuel flow into the tank vehicles. 
2006.12 Aircraft engines and heaters. Operation of aircraft onboard engines and combustion heaters shall be terminated prior to commencing fuel service operations and shall remain off until the fuel-servicing operation is completed. 
Exception: In an emergency, a single jet engine is allowed to be operated during fuel servicing where all of the fol­lowing conditions are met: 
1. 	
The emergency shall have resulted from an onboard failure of the aircraft's auxiliary power unit. 

2. 	
Restoration of auxiliary power to the aircraft by ground support services is not available. 

3. 	
The engine to be operated is either at the rear of the aircraft or on the opposite side of the aircraft from the fuel service operation. 

4. 	
The emergency operation is in accordance with a written procedure approved by the fire code official. 


2006.13 Vehicle and equipment restrictions. During air­craft-fueling operations, only the equipment actively involved in the fueling operation is allowed within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of the aircraft being fueled. Other equipment shall be prohibited in this area until the fueling operation is com­plete. 
Exception: Aircraft-fueling operations utilizing single­point refueling with a sealed, mechanically locked fuel line connection and the fuel is not a Class I flammable liq­uid. 
A clear space of at least 10 feet (3048 mm) shall be main­tained between aircraft fuel-system vent openings and any part or portion of aircraft-servicing vehicles or equipment. 
2006.13.1 Overwing fueling. Vehicles or equipment shall not be allowed beneath the trailing edge of the wing when aircraft fueling takes place over the wing and the aircraft fuel-system vents are located on the upper surface of the wing. 
2006.14 Electrical equipment. Electrical equipment, includ­ing but not limited to, battery chargers, ground or auxiliary power units, fans, compressors or tools, shall not be operated, nor shall they be connected or disconnected from their power source, during fuel service operations. 
2006.14.1 Other equipment. Electrical or other spark­producing equipment shall not be used within 10 feet (3048 mm) of fueling equipment, aircraft fill or vent points, or spill areas unless that equipment is intrinsically safe and approved for use in an explosive atmosphere. 
2006.15 Open flames. Open flames and open-flame devices are prohibited within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of any aircraft fuel-servicing operation or fueling equipment. 
2006.15.1 Other areas. The fire code official is autho­rized to establish other locations where open flames and open-flame devices are prohibited. 
2006.15.2 Matches and lighters. Personnel assigned to and engaged in fuel-servicing operations shall not carry matches or lighters on or about their person. Matches or lighters shall be prohibited in, on or about aircraft-fueling equipment. 
2006.16 Lightning procedures. The fire code official is authorized to require the airport authority and the fueling-sys­tem operator to establish written procedures to follow when lightning flashes are detected on or near the airport. These procedures shall establish criteria for the suspension and resumption of aircraft-fueling operations. 
2006.17 Fuel-transfer locations. Aircraft fuel-transfer oper­ations shall be prohibited indoors. 
Exception: In aircraft hangars built in accordance with the provisions of the California Building Code for Group F-1 occupancies, aircraft fuel-transfer operations are allowed where: 
1. 	
Necessary to accomplish aircraft fuel-system main­tenance operations. Such operations shall be per­formed in accordance with nationally recognized standards; or 

2. 	
The fuel being used has a flash point greater than 100°F (37.8°C). 


2006.17.1 Position of aircraft. Aircraft being fueled shall be positioned such that any fuel system vents and other fuel tank openings are a minimum of: 
1. 	
Twenty-five feet (7620 mm) from buildings or structures other than jet bridges; and 

2. 	
Fifty feet (15 240 mm) from air intake vents for boiler, heater or incinerator rooms. 


2006.17.2 Fire equipment access. Access for fire service equipment to aircraft shall be maintained during fuel-ser­vicing operations. 
2006.18 Defueling operations. The requirements for fueling operations contained in this section shall also apply to aircraft defueling operations. Additional procedures shall be estab­lished by the fueling-system operator to prevent overfilling of the tank vehicle used in the defueling operation. 
2006.19 Maintenance of aircraft-fueling hose. Aircraft­fueling hoses shall be maintained in accordance with Sections 2006.19.1 through 2006.19.4. 
2006.19.1 Inspections. Hoses used to fuel or defuel air­craft shall be inspected periodically to ensure their service­ability and suitability for continued service. The fuel­service operator shall maintain records of all tests and inspections performed on fueling hoses. Hoses found to be defective or otherwise damaged shall be immediately removed from service. 
2006.19.1.1 Daily inspection. Each hose shall be inspected daily. This inspection shall include a com­plete visual scan of the exterior for evidence of damage, 
blistering or leakage. Each coupling shall be inspected for evidence of leaks, slippage or misalignment. 
2006.19.1.2 Monthly inspection. A more thorough inspection, including pressure testing, shall be accom­plished for each hose on a monthly basis. This inspec­tion shall include examination of the fuel delivery inlet screen for rubber particles, which indicates problems with the hose lining. 
2006.19.2 Damaged hose. Hose that has been subjected to severe abuse shall be immediately removed from service. Such hoses shall be hydrostatically tested prior to being returned to service. 
2006.19.3 Repairing hose. Hoses are allowed to be repaired by removing the damaged portion and recoupling the undamaged end. When recoupling hoses, only cou­plings designed and approved for the size and type of hose in question shall be used. Hoses repaired in this manner shall be visually inspected and hydrostatically tested prior to being placed back in service. 
2006.19.4 New hose. New hose shall be visually inspected prior to being placed into service. 

2006.20 Aircraft fuel-servicing vehicles parking. Unat­tended aircraft fuel-servicing vehicles shall be parked in areas that provide for both the unencumbered dispersal of vehicles in the event of an emergency and the control of leakage such that adjacent buildings and storm drains are not contaminated by leaking fuel. 
2006.20.1 Parking area design. Parking areas for tank vehicles shall be designed and utilized such that a clear­ance of 10 feet (3048 mm) is maintained between each parked vehicle for fire department access. In addition, a minimum clearance of 50 feet (15 240 mm) shall be main­tained between tank vehicles and parked aircraft and struc­tures other than those used for the maintenance and/or garaging of aircraft fuel-servicing vehicles. 

2006.21 Radar equipment. Aircraft fuel-servicing opera­tions shall be prohibited while the weather-mapping radar of that aircraft is operating. 
Aircraft fuel-servicing or other operations in which flam­mable liquids, vapors or mists may be present shall not be conducted within 300 feet (91 440 mm) of an operating air­craft surveillance radar. 
Aircraft fuel-servicing operations shall not be conducted within 300 feet (91 440 mm) of airport flight traffic surveil­lance radar equipment. 
Aircraft fuel-servicing or other operations in which flam­mable liquids, vapors or mists may be present shall not be conducted within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of airport ground traffic surveillance radar equipment. 
AVIATION FACILITIES 
2006.21.1 Direction of radar beams. The beam from ground radar equipment shall not be directed toward fuel storage or loading racks. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Fuel storage and loading racks in excess of 300 feet (91 440 mm) from airport flight traffic sur­veillance equipment. 

2. 	
Fuel storage and loading racks in excess of 100 feet (30 480 mm) from airport ground traffic sur­veillance equipment. 


SECTION 2007 
HELISTOPS AND HELIPORTS 


2007.1 General. Helistops and heliports shall be maintained in accordance with Sections 2007.2 through 2007.8. Heli­stops and heliports on buildings shall be constructed in accor­dance with the California Building Code. 
2007.2 Clearances. The touchdown area shall be surrounded on all sides by a clear area having minimum average width at roof level of 15 feet (4572 mm) but no width less than 5 feet (1524 mm). The clear area shall be maintained. 
2007.3 Flammable and Class II combustible liquid spill­age. Landing areas on structures shall be maintained so as to confine flammable or Class II combustible liquid spillage to the landing area itself, and provisions shall be made to drain such spillage away from exits or stairways serving the heli­copter landing area or from a structure housing such exit or stairway. 
2007.4 Exits. Exits and stairways shall be maintained in accordance with Section 412.7 of the California Building Code. 
2007.5 Standpipe systems. A building with a rooftop heli­stop or heliport shall be provided with a Class I or III stand­pipe system extended to the roof level on which the helistop or heliport is located. All portions of the helistop and heliport area shall be within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of a 21/ 2-inch (63.5 mm) outlet on the standpipe system. 
2007.6 Foam protection. Foam fire-protection capabilities shall be provided for rooftop heliports. Such systems shall be designed, installed and maintained in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sections 903, 904 and 905. 
2007.7 Fire extinguishers. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher having a minimum 80-B:C rating shall be pro­vided for each permanent takeoff and landing area and for the aircraft parking areas. Installation, inspection and mainte­nance of these extinguishers shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 906. 
2007.8 Federal approval. Before operating helicopters from helistops and heliports, approval shall be obtained from the Federal Aviation Administration. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 21 -DRY CLEANING 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section 2101.1.1  X  

... 
. . 
"'

* The Califorma Code ofRegulations (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSIOns that are found Ill the Califorma hre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 21 
DRY CLEANING 
SECTION 2101 
GENERAL 


2101.1 Scope. Dry cleaning plants and their operations shall comply with the requirements of this chapter. 
2101.1.1 Compliance alternate for dry cleaning plants. Dry cleaning plants shall be permitted to comply with the provisions of NFPA 32 in its entirety as an acceptable alternative to the requirements ofthis chapter. 

2101.2 Permit required. Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. 
SECTION 2102 
DEFINITIONS 


2102.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: DRY CLEANING. DRY CLEANING PLANT. DRY CLEANING ROOM. DRY CLEANING SYSTEM. SOLVENT OR LIQUID CLASSIFICATIONS. Class I solvents. Class II solvents. Class IliA solvents. Class IIIB solvents. Class IV solvents. 
SECTION 2103 
CLASSIFICATIONS 


2103.1 Solvent classification. Dry cleaning solvents shall be classified according to their flash points as follows: 
1. 	
Class I solvents are liquids having a flash point below 100°F (38°C). 


2. 	
Class II solvents are liquids having a flash point at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C). 

3. 	
Class IliA solvents are liquids having a flash point at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C). 

4. 	
Class IIIB solvents are liquids having a flash point at or above 200°F (93°C). 


5. 	
Class IV solvents are liquids classified as nonflamma­


ble. 2103.2 Classification of dry cleaning plants and systems. Dry cleaning plants and systems shall be classified based on the solvents used as follows: 
1. 	
Type !-systems using Class I solvents. 


2. 	
Type II-systems using Class II solvents. 

3. 	
Type III-A-systems using Class IliA solvents. 

4. 
Type III-B-systems using Class IIIB solvents. 

5. 	
Type IV-systems using Class IV solvents in which dry cleaning is not conducted by the public. 

6. 	
Type V -systems using Class IV solvents in which dry cleaning is conducted by the public. 


Spotting and pretreating operations conducted in accor­dance with Section 2106 shall not change the type of the dry cleaning plant. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2103.2.1 Multiple solvents. Dry cleaning plants using more than one class of solvent for dry cleaning shall be classified based on the numerically lowest solvent class. 
2103.3 Design. The occupancy classification, design and construction of dry cleaning plants shall comply with the applicable requirements of the California Building Code. 
SECTION 2104 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


2104.1 Prohibited use. Type I dry cleaning plants shall be prohibited. Limited quantities of Class I solvents stored and used in accordance with this section shall not be prohibited in dry cleaning plants. 
2104.2 Building services. Building services and systems shall be designed, installed and maintained in accordance with this section and Chapter 6. 
2104.2.1 Ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided in accordance with Section 502 of the California Mechanical Code and DOL 29 CFR Part 1910.1000, where applicable. 
2104.2.2 Heating. In Type II dry cleaning plants, heating shall be by indirect means using steam, hot water or hot oil only. 
2104.2.3 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electtical wiring and equipment in dry cleaning rooms or other loca­tions subject to flammable vapors shall be installed in accordance with NFP A 70. 
2104.2.4 Bonding and grounding. Storage tanks, treat­ment tanks, filters, pumps, piping, ducts, dry cleaning units, stills, tumblers, drying cabinets and other such equipment, where not inherently electrically conductive, shall be bonded together and grounded. Isolated equip­ment shall be grounded. 
SECTION 21 05 
OPERATING REQUIREMENTS 


2105.1 General. The operation of dry cleaning systems shall comply with the requirements of Sections 2105.1.1 through 2105.3. 
2105.1.1 Written instructions. Written instructions cov­ering the proper installation and safe operation and use of equipment and solvent shall be given to the buyer. 
2105.1.1.1 Type II, III-A, III-B and IV systems. In Type II, III-A, III-B and IV dry cleaning systems, machines shall be operated in accordance with the operating instructions furnished by the machinery man­ufacturer. Employees shall be instructed as to the haz­ards involved in their departments and in the work they perform. 
2105.1.1.2 Type V systems. Operating instructions for customer use of Type V dry cleaning systems shall be conspicuously posted in a location near the dry clean­ing unit. A telephone number shall be provided for emergency assistance. 
2105.1.2 Equipment identification. The manufacturer shall provide nameplates on dry cleaning machines indi­cating the class of solvent for which each machine is designed. 
2105.1.3 Open systems prohibited. Dry cleaning by immersion and agitation in open vessels shall be prohib­ited. 
2105.1.4 Prohibited use of solvent. The use of solvents with a flash point below that for which a machine is designed or listed shall be prohibited. 
2105.1.5 Equipment maintenance and housekeeping. Proper maintenance and operating practices shall be observed in order to prevent the leakage of solvent or the accumulation of lint. The handling of waste material gen­erated by dry cleaning operations and the maintenance of facilities shall comply with the provisions of this section. 
2105.1.5.1 Floors. Class I and II liquids shall not be used for cleaning floors. 
2105.1.5.2 Filters. Filter residue and other residues containing solvent shall be handled and disposed of in covered metal containers. 
2105.1.5.3 Lint. Lint and refuse shall be removed from traps daily, deposited in approved waste cans, removed from the premises, and disposed of safely. At all other times, traps shall be held securely in place. 
2105.1.5.4 Customer areas. In Type V dry cleaning systems, customer areas shall be kept clean. 
2105.2 Type II systems. Special operating requirements for 
Type II dry cleaning systems shall comply with the provi­
sions of Sections 2105.2.1 through 2105.2.3. 
2105.2.1 Inspection of materials. Materials to be dry cleaned shall be searched thoroughly and foreign materi­als, including matches and metallic substances, shall be removed. 
2105.2.2 Material transfer. In removing materials from the washer, provisions shall be made for minimizing the dripping of solvent on the floor. Where materials are trans­ferred from a washer to a drain tub, a nonferrous metal drip apron shall be placed so that the apron rests on the drain tub and the cylinder of the washer. 
2105.2.3 Ventilation. A mechanical ventilation system which is designed to exhaust 1 cubic foot of air per minute for each square foot of floor area [0.0058 m3/(s • m2)] shall be installed in dry cleaning rooms and in drying rooms. The ventilation system shall operate automatically when the dry cleaning equipment is in operation and shall have manual controls at an approved location. 
2105.3 Type IV and V systems. Type IV and V dry cleaning systems shall be provided with an automatically activated exhaust ventilation system to maintain a minimum of 100 feet per minute (0.51 m/s) air velocity through the loading door when the door is opened. Such systems for dry cleaning equipment shall comply with the California Mechanical Code. 
Exception: Dry cleaning units are not required to be pro­vided with exhaust ventilation where an exhaust hood is 
DRY CLEANING 
installed immediately outside of and above the loading door which operates at an airflow rate as follows: 
Q =100 xAw 	(Equation 21-1) 
where: 
Q = 	flow rate exhausted through the hood, cubic feet per minute (m3/s). 
Aw = 	area of the loading door, square feet (m2). 
SECTION 2106 
SPOTTING AND PRETREATING 


2106.1 General. Spotting and pretreating operations and equipment shall comply with the provisions of Sections 2106.2 through 2106.5. 
2106.2 Class I solvents. The maximum quantity of Class I solvents permitted at any work station shall be 1 gallon (4 L). Spotting or prespotting shall be permitted to be conducted with Class I solvents where they are stored in and dispensed from approved safety cans or in sealed DOT -approved metal shipping containers of not more than 1-gallon ( 4 L) capacity. 
2106.2.1 Spotting and prespotting. Spotting and pre­spotting shall be permitted to be conducted with Class I solvents where dispensed from plastic containers of not more than 1 pint (0.5 L) capacity. 

2106.3 Class II and III solvents. Scouring, brushing, and spotting and pretreating shall be permitted to be conducted with Class II or III solvents. The maximum quantity of Class II or III solvents permitted at any work station shall be l gal­lon (4 L). In other than Group H-2 occupancy, the aggregate quantities of solvents shall not exceed the maximum allow­able quantity per control area for use-open system. 
2106.3.1 Spotting tables. Scouring, brushing or spotting tables on which articles are soaked in solvent shall have a liquid-tight top with a curb on all sides not less than 1 inch (25 mm) high. The top of the table shall be pitched to ensure thorough draining to a 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) drain con­nected to an approved container. 
2106.3.2 Special handling. When approved, articles that cannot be washed in the usual washing machines are allowed to be cleaned in scrubbing tubs. Scrubbing tubs shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
Only Class II or III liquids shall be used. 

2. 	
The total amount of solvent used in such open con­tainers shall not exceed 3 gallons (11 L). 

3. 	
Scrubbing tubs shall be secured to the floor. 

4. 	
Scrubbing tubs shall be provided with permanent 11/ 2­inch (38 mm) drains. Such drain shall be provided with a trap and shall be connected to an approved container. 


2106.3.3 Ventilation. Scrubbing tubs, scouring, brushing or spotting operations shall be located such that solvent vapors are captured and exhausted by the ventilating sys­tem. 
2106.3.4 Bonding and grounding. Metal scouring, brush­ing and spotting tables and scrubbing tubs shall be perma­nently and effectively bonded and grounded. 

2106.4 Type IV systems. Flammable and combustible liq­uids used for spotting operations shall be stored in approved safety cans or in sealed DOTn-approved shipping containers of not more than 1 gallon (4 L) in capacity. Aggregate amounts shall not exceed 10 gallons (38 L). 
2106.5 Type V systems. Spotting operations using flamma­ble or combustible liquids are prohibited in Type V dry clean­ing systems. 
SECTION 2107 
DRY CLEANING SYSTEMS 


2107.1 General equipment requirements. Dry cleaning systems, including dry cleaning units, washing machines, stills, drying cabinets, tumblers and their appurtenances, including pumps, piping, valves, filters and solvent coolers, shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFP A 
32. The construction of buildings in which such systems are located shall comply with the requirements of this section and the California Building Code. 
2107.2 Type II systems. Type II dry cleaning and solvent tank storage rooms shall not be located below grade or above the lowest floor level of the building and shall comply with Sections 2107.2.1 through 2107.2.3. 
Exception: Solvent storage tanks installed underground, in vaults or in special enclosures in accordance with Chap­ter 57. 
2107.2.1 Fire-fighting access. Type II dry cleaning plants shall be located so that access is provided and maintained from one side for fire-fighting and fire control purposes in accordance with Section 503. 
2107.2.2 Number of means of egress. Type II dry clean­ing rooms shall have not less than two means of egress doors located at opposite ends of the room, at least one of which shall lead directly to the outside. 
2107.2.3 Spill control and secondary containment. Curbs, drains or other provisions for spill control and sec­ondary containment shall be provided in accordance with Section 5004.2 to collect solvent leakage and fire protec­tion water and direct it to a safe location. 
2107.3 Solvent storage tanks. Solvent storage tanks for Class II, IliA and IIIB liquids shall conform to the require­ments of Chapter 57 and be located underground or outside, above ground. 
Exception: As provided in NFPA 32 for inside storage or treatment tanks. 
SECTION 2108 
FIRE PROTECTION 


2108.1 General. Where required by this section, fire protec­tion systems, devices and equipment shall be installed, inspected, tested and maintained in accordance with Chapter 9. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2108.2 Automatic sprinkler system. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1 throughout dry cleaning plants containing Type II, Type III-A or Type III-B dry cleaning systems. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	An automatic sprinkler system shall not be required in Type III-A dry cleaning plants where the aggre­gate quantity of Class III-A solvent in dry cleaning machines and storage does not exceed 330 gallons (1250 L) and dry cleaning machines are equipped with a feature that will accomplish any one of the following: 
1.1. Prevent oxygen concentrations from reach­ing 8 percent or more by volume. 
1.2. Keep the temperature of the solvent at least 30°F (16.7°C) below the flash point. 
1.3. Maintain the solvent vapor concentration at a level lower than 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL). 
1.4. Utilize equipment approved for use in Class I, Division 2 hazardous locations in accor­dance with NFP A 70. 

1.5. 
Utilize an integrated dry-chemical, clean agent or water-mist automatic fire-extin­guishing system designed in accordance with Chapter 9. 


2. 	
An automatic sprinkler system shall not be required in Type III-B dry cleaning plants where the aggre­gate quantity of Class III-B solvent in dry cleaning machines and storage does not exceed 3,300 gallons (12 490 L). 


2108.3 Automatic fire-extinguishing systems. Type II dry cleaning units, washer-extractors, and drying tumblers in Type II dry cleaning plants shall be provided with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system installed and maintained in accordance with Chapter 9. 
Exception: Where approved, a manual steam jet not less than\ inch (19 mm) with a continuously available steam supply at a pressure not less than 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (103 kPa) is allowed to be substituted for the automatic fire-extinguishing system. 
2108.4 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extin­guishers shall be selected, installed and maintained in accor­dance with this section and Section 906. A minimum of two, 2-A:lO-B:C portable fire extinguishers shall be provided near the doors inside dry cleaning rooms containing Type II, Type III-A and Type III-B dry cleaning systems. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 22-COMBUSTIBLE DUST-PRODUCING OPERATIONS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisiOns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 22 
COMBUSTIBLE DUST-PRODUCING OPERATIONS 

SECTION 2201 
GENERAL 


2201.1 Scope. The equipment, processes and operations involving dust explosion hazards shall comply with the provi­sions of this chapter. 
2201.2 Permits. Permits shall be required for combustible dust-producing operations as set forth in Section 105.6. 
SECTION 2202 
DEFINITION 


2202.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
COMBUSTIBLE DUST. 
SECTION 2203 
PRECAUTIONS 


2203.1 Sources of ignition. Smoking or the use of heating or other devices employing an open flame, or the use of spark­producing equipment is prohibited in areas where combusti­ble dust is generated, stored, manufactured, processed or han­dled. 
2203.2 Housekeeping. Accumulation of combustible dust shall be kept to a minimum in the interior of buildings. Accu­mulated combustible dust shall be collected by vacuum cleaning or other means that will not place combustible dust into suspension in air. Forced air or similar methods shall not be used to remove dust from surfaces. 
SECTION 2204 
EXPLOSION PROTECTION 


2204.1 Standards. The fire code official is authorized to enforce applicable provisions of the codes and standards listed in Table 2204.1 to prevent and control dust explosions. 
TABLE 2204.1 
EXPLOSION PROTECTION STANDARDS 


STANDARD  SUBJECT  
NFPA61  Agricultural and Food Products  
NFPA69  Explosion Prevention  
NFPA 70  National Electrical Code  
NFPA 85  Boiler and Combustion System Hazards  
NFPA 120  Coal Preparation Plants  
NFPA484  Combustible Metals  
NFPA654  Manufacturing, Processing and Handling of Combus­tible Particulate Solids  
NFPA 655  Prevention of Sulfur Fires and Explosions  
NFPA664  Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Wood Process­ing and Woodworking Facilities  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 23-MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 23 
MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
SECTION 2301 GENERAL 

2301.1 Scope. Automotive motor fuel-dispensing facilities, marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities, fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facilities, aircraft motor-vehicle fuel-dispens­ing facilities and repair garages shall be in accordance with this chapter and the California Building Code, California Plumbing Code and California Mechanical Code. Such oper­ations shall include both those that are accessible to the pub­lic and private operations. 
2301.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
2301.3 Construction documents. Construction documents shall be submitted for review and approval prior to the instal­lation or construction of automotive, marine or fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facilities and repair garages in accor­dance with Section 105.4. 
2301.4 Indoor motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Motor fuel­dispensing facilities located inside buildings shall comply with the California Building Code and NFP A 30A. 
2301.4.1 Protection of floor openings in indoor motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Where motor fuel-dispensing facilities are located inside buildings and the dispensers are located above spaces within the building, openings beneath dispensers shall be sealed to prevent the flow of leaked fuel to lower building spaces. 

2301.5 Electrical. Electrical wiring and equipment shall be suitable for the locations in which they are installed and shall 
> 	comply with Section 605, NFPA 30A and California Electri­cal Code. 
2301.6 Heat-producing appliances. Heat-producing appli­ances shall be suitable for the locations in which they are installed and shall comply with NFP A 30A and the Califor­nia Plumbing Code or the California Mechanical Code. 
SECTION 2302 
DEFINITIONS 


2302.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
AIRCRAFT MOTOR-VEHICLE FUEL-DISPEN­ING FACILITY. 
ALCOHOL-BLENDED FUELS. 
AUTOMOTIVE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. 
DISPENSING DEVICE, OVERHEAD TYPE. 
FLEET VEHICLE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. 
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG). 
MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. 
REPAIR GARAGE. 
SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY. 
SECTION 2303 
LOCATION OF DISPENSING DEVICES 


2303.1 Location of dispensing devices. Dispensing devices shall be located as follows: 
1. Ten feet (3048 mm) or more from lot lines. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	
Ten feet (3048 mm) or more from buildings having combustible exterior wall surfaces or buildings having noncombustible exterior wall surfaces that are not part of a 1-hour fire-resistance-rated assembly or buildings having combustible overhangs. 

Exception: Canopies constructed in accordance with the California Building Code providing weather protection for the fuel islands. 

3. 	
Such that all portions of the vehicle being fueled will be on the premises of the motor fuel-dispensing facility. 

4. 	
Such that the nozzle, when the hose is fully extended, will not reach within 5 feet (1524 mm) of building openings. 

5. 	
Twenty feet (6096 mm) or more from fixed sources of ignition. 


2303.1.1 Protection of dispensing devices. Where dis­pensing devices are mounted at grade, they shall be pro­tected at each end with a minimum of two concrete filled steel posts, 6 inches ( 152 mm) in diameter, having a mini­mum 3-foot-deep (914 mm)footing not less than 15 inches ( 38 mm) in diameter and projecting above grade at a min­imum of3 feet (914 mm) and be located not less than 4 feet ( 1219 mm) nor more than 5 feet ( 1524 mm) from fuel dis­pensers or point-of-sale devices, or equivalent means approved by the fire chief 
2303.2 Emergency disconnect switches. An approved, clearly identified and readily accessible emergency discon­nect switch shall be provided at an approved location to stop the transfer of fuel to the fuel dispensers in the event of a fuel spill or other emergency. An emergency disconnect switch for exterior fuel dispensers shall be located within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of, but not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) from, the fuel dispensers. For interior fuel-dispensing operations, the emergency disconnect switch shall be installed at an approved location. Such devices shall be distinctly labeled as: EMERGENCY FUEL SHUTOFF. Signs shall be provided in approved locations. 
SECTION 2304 
DISPENSING OPERATIONS 


2304.1 Supervision of dispensing. The dispensing of fuel at motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be conducted by a quali­fied attendant or shall be under the supervision of a qualified attendant at all times or shall be in accordance with Section 2304.3. 
2304.2 Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facili­ties. Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2304.2.1 through 2304.2.5. Attended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall have at least one qualified attendant on duty while the facility is open for business. The attendant's primary function shall be to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of fuel. The attendant shall prevent the dispensing of fuel into con­tainers that do not comply with Section 2304.4.1, control sources of ignition, give immediate attention to accidental spills or releases, and be prepared to use fire extinguishers. 
2304.2.1 Special-type dispensers. Approved special-dis­pensing devices and systems such as, but not limited to, card-or coin-operated and remote-preset types, are allowed at motor fuel-dispensing facilities provided there is at least one qualified attendant on duty while the facility is open to the public. Remote preset-type devices shall be set in the "off' position while not in use so that the dis­penser cannot be activated without the knowledge of the attendant. 
2304.2.2 Emergency controls. Approved emergency con­trols shall be provided in accordance with Section 2303.2. 
2304.2.3 Operating instructions. Dispenser operating instructions shall be conspicuously posted in approved locations on every dispenser. 
2304.2.4 Obstructions to view. Dispensing devices shall be in clear view of the attendant at all times. Obstructions shall not be placed between the dispensing area and the attendant. 
2304.2.5 Communications. The attendant shall be able to communicate with persons in the dispensing area at all times. An approved method of communicating with the fire department shall be provided for the attendant. 
2304.3 Unattended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Unattended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2304.3.1 through 2304.3.7. 
2304.3.1 General. Where approved, unattended self-ser­vice motor fuel-dispensing facilities are allowed. As a condition of approval, the owner or operator shall provide, and be accountable for, daily site visits, regular equipment inspection and maintenance. 
2304.3.2 Dispensers. Dispensing devices shall comply with Section 2306.7. Dispensing devices operated by the insertion of coins or currency shall not be used unless approved. 
2304.3.3 Emergency controls. Approved emergency con­trols shall be provided in accordance with Section 2303.2. Emergency controls shall be of a type which is only manu­ally resettable. 
2304.3.4 Operating instructions. Dispenser operating instructions shall be conspicuously posted in approved locations on every dispenser and shall indicate the location of the emergency controls required by Section 2304.3.3. 
2304.3.5 Emergency procedures. An approved emer­gency procedures sign, in addition to the signs required by Section 2305.6, shall be posted in a conspicuous location and shall read: 
IN CASE OF FIRE, SPILL OR RELEASE 
1. 
USE EMERGENCY PUMP SHUTOFF 

2. 
REPORT THE ACCIDENT! 



FIRE DEPARTMENT TELEPHONE NO. 
FACILITY ADDRESS ________ 
2304.3.6 Communications. A telephone not requiring a coin to operate or other approved, clearly identified means to notify the fire department shall be provided on the site in a location approved by the fire code official. 
2304.3.7 Quantity limits. Dispensing equipment used at unsupervised locations shall comply with one of the fol­lowing: 
1. 	
Dispensing devices shall be programmed or set to limit uninterrupted fuel delivery to 25 gallons (95 L) and require a manual action to resume delivery. 

2. 	
The amount of fuel being dispensed shall be limited in quantity by a preprogrammed card as approved. 



2304.4 Dispensing into portable containers. The dispensing of flammable or combustible liquids into portable approved containers shall comply with Sections 2304.4.1 through 2304.4.3. 
2304.4.1 Approved containers required. Class I, II and IliA liquids shall not be dispensed into a portable con­tainer unless such container does not exceed a 6-gallon 
(23.7 L) capacity, is listed or of approved material and construction, and has a tight closure with a screwed or spring-loaded cover so designed that the contents can be dispensed without spilling. Liquids shall not be dispensed into portable or cargo tanks. 
2304.4.2 Nozzle operation. A hose nozzle valve used for dispensing Class I liquids into a portable container shall be in compliance with Section 2306.7.6 and be manually held open during the dispensing operation. 
2304.4.3 Location of containers being filled. Portable containers shall not be filled while located inside the trunk, passenger compartment or truck bed of a vehicle. 
SECTION 2305 
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 


2305.1 Tank filling operations for Class I, II or III liquids. Delivery operations to tanks for Class I, II or III liquids shall comply with Sections 2305.1.1 through 2305.1.3 and the applicable requirements of Chapter 57. 
2305.1.1 Delivery vehicle location. Where liquid delivery to above-ground storage tanks is accomplished by posi­tive-pressure operation, tank vehicles shall be positioned a minimum of 25 feet (7620 mm) from tanks receiving Class I liquids and 15 feet (4572 mm) from tanks receiv­ing Class II and IliA liquids. 
2305.1.2 Tank capacity calculation. The driver, operator or attendant of a tank vehicle shall, before making delivery to a tank, determine the unfilled, available capacity of such tank by an approved gauging device. 
2305.1.3 Tank fill connections. Delivery of flammable liquids to tanks more than 1,000 gallons (3785 L) in capacity shall be made by means of approved liquid-and vapor-tight connections between the delivery hose and tank fill pipe. Where tanks are equipped with any type of vapor recovery system, all connections required to be made for the safe and proper functioning of the particular vapor recovery process shall be made. Such connections 

MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
shall be made liquid and vapor tight and remain connected throughout the unloading process. Vapors shall not be dis­charged at grade level during delivery. 

2305.2 Equipment maintenance and inspection. Motor fuel-dispensing facility equipment shall be maintained in proper working order at all times in accordance with Sections 2305.2.1 through 2305.2.5. 
2305.2.1 Inspections. Flammable and combustible liquid fuel-dispensing and containment equipment shall be peri­odically inspected where required by the fire code official to verify that it is in proper working order and not subject to leakage. 

2305.2.2 Repairs and service. The fire code official is authorized to require damaged or unsafe containment and dispensing equipment to be repaired or serviced in an approved manner. 
2305.2.3 Dispensing devices. Where maintenance to Class I liquid dispensing devices becomes necessary and such maintenance could allow the accidental release or ignition of liquid, the following precautions shall be taken before such maintenance is begun: 
1. 	
Only persons knowledgeable in performing the required maintenance shall perform the work. 

2. 	
Electrical power to the dispensing device and pump serving the dispenser shall be shut off at the main electrical disconnect panel. 

3. 	
The emergency shutoff valve at the dispenser, where installed, shall be closed. 

4. 	
Vehicle traffic and unauthorized persons shall be prevented from coming within 12 feet (3658 mm) of the dispensing device. 



2305.2.4 Emergency shutoff valves. Automatic emer­gency shutoff valves required by Section 2306.7.4 shall be checked not less than once per year by manually tripping the hold-open linkage. 
2305.2.5 Leak detectors. Leak detection devices required by Section 2306.7.7.1 shall be checked and tested at least annually in accordance with the manufacturer's specifica­tions to ensure proper installation and operation. 
2305.3 Spill control. Provisions shall be made to prevent liq­uids spilled during dispensing operations from flowing into buildings. Acceptable methods include, but shall not be lim­ited to, grading driveways, raising doorsills or other approved means. 
2305.4 Sources of ignition. Smoking and open flames shall be prohibited in areas where fuel is dispensed. The engines of vehicles being fueled shall be shut off during fueling. Electri­cal equipment shall be in accordance with the California Electrical Code. 
2305.5 Fire extinguishers. Approved portable fire extin­guishers complying with Section 906 with a minimum rating of 2-A:20-B:C shall be provided and located such that an extinguisher is not more than 75 feet (23 860 mm) from pumps, dispensers or storage tank fill-pipe openings. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2305.6 Warning signs. Warning signs shall be conspicu­ously posted within sight of each dispenser in the fuel-dis­pensing area and shall state the following: 
1. 	
No smoking. 

2. 	
Shut off motor. 

3. 	
Discharge your static electricity before fueling by touching a metal surface away from the nozzle. 

4. 	
To prevent static charge, do not reenter your vehicle while gasoline is pumping. 

5. 	
If a fire starts, do not remove nozzle-back away immediately. 

6. 	
It is unlawful and dangerous to dispense gasoline into unapproved containers. 

7. 	
No filling of portable containers in or on a motor vehi­


cle. Place container on ground before filling. 2305.7 Control of brush and debris. Fenced and diked areas surrounding above-ground tanks shall be kept free from vege­tation, debris and other material that is not necessary to the proper operation of the tank and piping system. 
Weeds, grass, brush, trash and other combustible materials shall be kept not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from fuel-han­dling equipment. 
SECTION 2306 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID MOTOR 
FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES 

2306.1 General. Storage of flammable and combustible liq­uids shall be in accordance with Chapter 57 and Sections 2306.2 through 2306.6.3. 
2306.2 Method of storage. Approved methods of storage for Class I, II and III liquid fuels at motor fuel-dispensing facili­ties shall be in accordance with Sections 2306.2.1 through 2306.2.5. 
2306.2.1 Underground tanks. Underground tanks for the storage of Class I, II and IliA liquid fuels shall comply with Chapter 57. 
2306.2.1.1 Inventory control for underground tanks. Accurate daily inventory records shall be maintained and reconciled on underground fuel storage tanks for indication of possible leakage from tanks and piping. The records shall be kept at the premises or made avail­able for inspection by the fire code official within 24 hours of a written or verbal request and shall include records for each product showing daily reconciliation between sales, use, receipts and inventory on hand. Where there is more than one system consisting of tanks serving separate pumps or dispensers for a prod­uct, the reconciliation shall be ascertained separately for each tank system. A consistent or accidental loss of product shall be immediately reported to the fire code official. 
2306.2.2 Above-ground tanks located inside buildings. Above-ground tanks for the storage of Class I, II and IliA liquid fuels are allowed to be located in buildings. Such tanks shall be located in special enclosures complying with Section 2306.2.6, in a liquid storage room or a liquid storage warehouse complying with Chapter 57, or shall be listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in accordance with UL 2085. 
2306.2.3 Above-ground tanks located outside, above grade. Above-ground tanks shall not be used for the stor­age of Class I, II or III liquid motor fuels, except as pro­vided by this section. 
1. 	Above-ground tanks used for outside, above-grade storage of Class I liquids shall be listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in accordance with UL 2085 and shall be in accordance with Chapter 
57. Such tanks shall be located in accordance with Table 2306.2.3. 
2. 	
Above-ground tanks used for outside, above-grade storage of Class II or IliA liquids shall be listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in accor­dance with UL 2085 and shall be installed in accor­dance with Chapter 57. Tank locations shall be in accordance with Table 2306.2.3. 

Exception: Other above-ground tanks that com­ply with Chapter 57 where approved by the fire code official. 


3. 	
Tanks containing fuels shall not exceed 12,000 gal­lons (45 420 L) in individual capacity or 48,000 gal­lons (181 680 L) in aggregate capacity. Installations with the maximum allowable aggregate capacity shall be separated from other such installations by not less than 100 feet (30 480 mm). 

4. 	
Tanks located at farms, construction projects, or rural areas shall comply with Section 5706.2. 

5. 	
Above-ground tanks used for outside above-grade storage of Class IIIB liquid motor fuel shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 142 or listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in accor­dance with UL 2085 and shall be installed in accor­dance with Chapter 57. Tank locations shall be in accordance with Table 2306.2.3. 


2306.2.4 Above-ground tanks located in above-grade vaults or below-grade vaults. Above-ground tanks used for storage of Class I, II or IliA liquid motor fuels are allowed to be installed in vaults located above grade or below grade in accordance with Section 5704.2.8 and shall comply with Sections 2306.2.4.1 and 2306.2.4.2. Tanks in above-grade vaults shall also comply with Table 2306.2.3. 
2306.2.4.1 Tank capacity limits. Tanks storing Class I and Class II liquids at an individual site shall be limited to a maximum individual capacity of 15,000 gallons (56 775 L) and an aggregate capacity of 48,000 gallons (181680L). 
2306.2.4.2 Fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facili­ties. Tanks storing Class II and Class IliA liquids at a fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facility shall be lim­ited to a maximum individual capacity of 20,000 gal­lons (75 700 L) and an aggregate capacity of 80,000 gallons (302 800 L). 
MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
TABLE 2306.2.3 MINIMUM SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ABOVE-GROUND TANKS 

MINIMUM  
CLASS OF LIQUID AND TANK TYPE  INDIVIDUAL TANK CAPACITY (gallons)  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM NEAREST IMPORTANT BUILDING ON SAME PROPERTY (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM NEAREST FUEL DISPENSER (feet)  DISTANCE FROM LOT LINE THAT IS OR CAN BE BUlLT UPON, INCLUDING THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF A PUBLIC WAY (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM NEAREST SIDE OF ANY PUBLIC WAY (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN TANKS (feet)  
Class I protected above-ground tanks  Less than or equal to 6,000  5  25"  15  5  3  
Greater than 6,000  15  25"  25  15  3  
Class II and III pro­ 
tected above-ground  Same as Class I  Same as Class I  Same as Class JC  Same as Class I  Same as Class I  Same as Class I  
tanks  
Tanks in vaults  0-20,000  ob  0  ob  0  Separate compact­ment required for each tank  
Other tanks  All  50  50  100  50  3  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
At fleet vehicle motor fuel-dispensing facilities, no minimum separation distance is required. 

b. 	
Underground vaults shall be located such that they will not be subject to loading from nearby structures, or they shall be designed to accommodate applied loads from existing or future structures that can be built nearby. 

c. 
For Class IIIB liquids in protected above-ground tanks, no minimum separation distance is required. 


2306.2.5 Portable tanks. Where approved by the fire code official, portable tanks are allowed to be temporarily used in conjunction with the dispensing of Class I, II or III liquids into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles or motorized equipment on premises not normally accessible to the pub­lic. The approval shall include a definite time limit. 
2306.2.6 Special enclosures. Where installation of tanks in accordance with Section 5704.2.11 is impractical, or because of property or building limitations, tanks for liq­uid motor fuels are allowed to be installed in buildings in special enclosures in accordance with all of the following: 
1. 	
The special enclosure shall be liquid tight and vapor tight. 

2. 	
The special enclosure shall not contain backfill. 

3. 	
Sides, top and bottom of the special enclosure shall be of reinforced concrete at least 6 inches (152 mm) thick, with openings for inspection through the top only. 

4. 
Tank connections shall be piped or closed such that neither vapors nor liquid can escape into the enclosed space between the special enclosure and any tanks inside the special enclosure. 

5. 	
Means shall be provided whereby portable equip­ment can be employed to discharge to the outside any vapors which might accumulate inside the spe­cial enclosure should leakage occur. 

6. 	
Tanks containing Class I, II or IliA liquids inside a special enclosure shall not exceed 6,000 gallons (22 710 L) in individual capacity or 18,000 gallons (68 130 L) in aggregate capacity. 


7. 	Each tank within special enclosures shall be sur­rounded by a clear space of not less than 3 feet (910 mm) to allow for maintenance and inspection. 

2306.3 Security. Above-ground tanks for the storage of liq­uid motor fuels shall be safeguarded from public access or unauthorized entry in an approved manner. 
2306.4 Physical protection. Guard posts complying with Section 312 or other approved means shall be provided to protect above-ground tanks against impact by a motor vehicle unless the tank is listed as a protected above-ground tank with vehicle impact protection. 
2306.5 Secondary containment. Above-ground tanks shall be provided with drainage control or diking in accordance with Chapter 57. Drainage control and diking is not required for listed secondary containment tanks. Secondary contain­ment systems shall be monitored either visually or automati­cally. Enclosed secondary containment systems shall be provided with emergency venting in accordance with Section 2306.6.2.5. 
2306.6 Piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equipment for use with flammable or combustible liquids. The design, fabrication, assembly, testing and inspection of piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equipment for use with flamma­ble or combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Chap­ter 57 and Sections 2306.6.1 through 2306.6.3. 
2306.6.1 Protection from damage. Piping shall be located such that it is protected from physical damage. 
2306.6.2 Piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equip­ment for above-ground tanks for Class I, II and III liq­uids. Piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equipment for above-ground tanks storing Class I, II and III liquids shall comply with Sections 2306.6.2.1 through 2306.6.2.6. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2306.6.2.1 Tank openings. Tank openings for above­ground tanks shall be through the top only. 
2306.6.2.2 Fill-pipe connections. The fill pipe for above-ground tanks shall be provided with a means for making a direct connection to the tank vehicle's fuel­delivery hose so that the delivery of fuel is not exposed to the open air during the filling operation. Where any portion of the fill pipe exterior to the tank extends below the level of the top of the tank, a check valve shall be installed in the fill pipe not more than 12 inches (305 mm) from the fill-hose connection. 
2306.6.2.3 Overfill protection. Overfill protection shall be provided for above-ground flammable and combustible liquid storage tanks in accordance with Sections 5704.2.7.5.8 and 5704.2.9.7.6. 
2306.6.2.4 Siphon prevention. An approved antisi­phon method shall be provided in the piping system to prevent flow of liquid by siphon action. 
2306.6.2.5 Emergency relief venting. Above-ground storage tanks, tank compartments and enclosed second­ary containment spaces shall be provided with emer­gency relief venting in accordance with Chapter 57. 
2306.6.2.6 Spill containers. A spill container having a capacity of not less than 5 gallons (19 L) shall be pro­vided for each fill connection. For tanks with a top fill connection, spill containers shall be noncombustible and shall be fixed to the tank and equipped with a man­ual drain valve that drains into the primary tank. For tanks with a remote fill connection, a portable spill con­tainer is allowed. 
2306.6.3 Piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equip­ment for underground tanks. Piping, valves, fittings and ancillary equipment for underground tanks shall comply with Chapter 57 and NFP A 30A. 
2306.7 Fuel-dispensing systems for flammable or combus­tible liquids. The design, fabrication and installation of fuel­dispensing systems for flammable or combustible liquid fuels shall be in accordance with Sections 2306.7.1 through 2306.7.9.2.4. Alcohol-blended fuel-dispensing systems shall also comply with Section 2306.8. 
2306.7.1 Listed equipment. Electrical equipment, dis­pensers, hose, nozzles and submersible or subsurface pumps used in fuel-dispensing systems shall be listed. 
2306.7.2 Fixed pumps required. Class I and II liquids shall be transferred from tanks by means of fixed pumps designed and equipped to allow control of the flow and prevent leakage or accidental discharge. 
2306.7.3 Mounting of dispensers. Dispensing devices, except those installed on top of a protected above-ground tank that qualifies as vehicle-impact resistant, shall be pro­tected against physical damage by mounting on a concrete island 6 inches (152 mm) or more in height, or shall be protected in accordance with Section 312. Dispensing devices shall be installed and securely fastened to their mounting surface in accordance with the dispenser manu­facturer's instructions. Dispensing devices installed indoors shall be located in an approved position where they cannot be struck by an out-of-control vehicle descending a ramp or other slope. 
2306.7.4 Dispenser emergency shutoff valve. An approved automatic emergency shutoff valve designed to close in the event of a fire or impact shall be properly installed in the liquid supply line at the base of each dis­penser supplied by a remote pump. The valve shall be installed so that the shear groove is flush with or within 1
/2 

inch (12.7 mm) of the top of the concrete dispenser island and there is clearance provided for maintenance purposes around the valve body and operating parts. The valve shall be installed at the liquid supply line inlet of each over­head-type dispenser. Where installed, a vapor return line located inside the dispenser housing shall have a shear sec­tion or approved flexible connector for the liquid supply line emergency shutoff valve to function. Emergency shut­off valves shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, tested at the time of initial installation and at least yearly thereafter in accor­dance with Section 2305.2.4. 
2306.7.5 Dispenser hose. Dispenser hoses shall be a max­imum of 18 feet (5486 mm) in length unless otherwise approved. Dispenser hoses shall be listed and approved. When not in use, hoses shall be reeled, racked or otherwise protected from damage. 
2306.7.5.1 Emergency breakaway devices. Dis­penser hoses for Class I and II liquids shall be equipped with a listed emergency breakaway device designed to retain liquid on both sides of a breakaway point. Such devices shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Where hoses are attached to hose-retrieving mechanisms, the emergency breakaway device shall be located between the hose nozzle and the point of attachment of the hose-retrieval mechanism to the hose. 
2306.7.6 Fuel delivery nozzles. A listed automatic-clos­ing-type hose nozzle valve with a latch-open device shall be provided on island-type dispensers used for dispensing < Class I, II or III liquids. 
Overhead-type dispensing units shall be provided with a listed automatic-closing-type hose nozzle valve a latch­open device. The design of the system shall be such that < the hose nozzle valve will close automatically in the event the valve is released from a fill opening or upon impact with a driveway. 
< 

Any latch-open device determined to be inoperative by the fire code official shall be repaired or replaced within 48 hours after notification. 
2306.7.6.1 Special requirements for nozzles. Where dispensing of Class I, II or III liquids is performed, a listed automatic-closing-type hose nozzle valve shall be used incorporating all of the following features: 
1. 	
The hose nozzle valve shall be equipped with an integral latch-open device. 

2. 	
When the flow of product is normally controlled by devices or equipment other than the hose noz­zle valve, the hose nozzle valve shall not be capa­


MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
ble of being opened unless the delivery hose is pressurized. If pressure to the hose is lost, the nozzle shall close automatically. 
Exception: Vapor recovery nozzles incorpo­rating insertion interlock devices designed to achieve shutoff on disconnect from the vehicle fill pipe. 
3. 	
The hose nozzle shall be designed such that the nozzle is retained in the fill pipe during the filling operation. 

4. 	
The system shall include listed equipment with a feature that causes or requires the closing of the hose nozzle valve before the product flow can be resumed or before the hose nozzle valve can be replaced in its normal position in the dispenser. 


2306.7.7 Remote pumping systems. Remote pumping systems for liquid fuels shall comply with Sections 2306.7.7.1 and 2306.7.7.2. 
2306.7.7.1 Leak detection. Where remote pumps are used to supply fuel dispensers, each pump shall have installed on the discharge side a listed leak detection device that will detect a leak in the piping and dispens­ers and provide an indication. A leak detection device is not required if the piping from the pump discharge to under the dispenser is above ground and visible. 
2306.7.7.2 Location. Remote pumps installed above grade, outside of buildings, shall be located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from lines of adjoining prop­erty that can be built upon and not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) from any building opening. Where an outside pump location is impractical, pumps are permitted to be installed inside buildings as provided for dispensers in Section 2301.4 and Chapter 57. Pumps shall be sub­stantially anchored and protected against physical dam­age. 
2306.7.8 Gravity and pressure dispensing. Flammable liquids shall not be dispensed by gravity from tanks, drums, barrels or similar containers. Flammable or com­bustible liquids shall not be dispensed by a device operat­ing through pressure within a storage tank, drum or container. 
2306.7.9 Vapor-recovery and vapor-processing systems. Vapor-recovery and vapor-processing systems shall be in accordance with Sections 2306.7.9.1 through 2306.7.9.2.4. 
2306.7.9.1 Vapor-balance systems. Vapor-balance sys­tems shall comply with Sections 2306.7.9.1.1 through 2306.7.9.1.5. 
2306.7.9.1.1 Dispensing devices. Dispensing devices incorporating provisions for vapor recovery shall be listed and labeled. When existing listed or labeled dispensing devices are modified for vapor recovery, such modifications shall be listed by report by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The listing by report shall contain a description of the component parts used in the modification and recommended method of installation on specific dis­pensers. Such report shall be made available on request of the fire code official. 
Means shall be provided to shut down fuel dis­pensing in the event the vapor return line becomes blocked. 
2306.7.9.1.2 Vapor-return line closeoff. An acceptable method shall be provided to close off the vapor return line from dispensers when the product is not being dispensed. 
2306.7.9.1.3 Piping. Piping in vapor-balance sys­tems shall be in accordance with Sections 5703.6, 5704.2.9 and 5704.2.11. Nonmetallic piping shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions. 
Existing and new vent piping shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5703.6 and 5704.2. Vapor return piping shall be installed in a manner that drains back to the tank, without sags or traps in which liquid can become trapped. If necessary, because of grade, condensate tanks are allowed in vapor return piping. Condensate tanks shall be designed and installed so that they can be drained without opening. 
2306.7.9.1.4 Flexible joints and shear joints. Flex­ible joints shall be installed in accordance with Sec­tion 5703.6.9. 
An approved shear joint shall be rigidly mounted and connected by a union in the vapor return piping at the base of each dispensing device. The shear joint shall be mounted flush with the top of the sur­face on which the dispenser is mounted. 
2306.7.9.1.5 Testing. Vapor return lines and vent piping shall be tested in accordance with Section 5703.6.3. 
2306.7.9.2 Vapor-processing systems. Vapor-process­ing systems shall comply with Sections 2306.7.9.2.1 through 2306.7.9.2.4. 
2306.7.9.2.1 Equipment. Equipment in vapor-pro­cessing systems, including hose nozzle valves, vapor pumps, flame arresters, fire checks or systems for prevention of flame propagation, controls and vapor-processing equipment, shall be individually listed for the intended use in a specified manner. 
Vapor-processing systems that introduce air into the underground piping or storage tanks shall be provided with equipment for prevention of flame propagation that has been tested and listed as suit­able for the intended use. 
2306.7.9.2.2 Location. Vapor-processing equip­ment shall be located at or above grade. Sources of ignition shall be located not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from fuel-transfer areas and not less than 18 inches (457 mm) above tank fill openings and tops of dispenser islands. Vapor-processing units shall be located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from the 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
nearest building or lot line of a property which can be built upon. 
Exception: Where the required distances to buildings, lot lines or fuel-transfer areas cannot be obtained, means shall be provided to protect equipment against fire exposure. Acceptable means shall include but not be limited to: 
1. 	
Approved protective enclosures, which extend at least 18 inches (457 mm) above the equipment, constructed of fire-resis­tant or noncombustible materials; or 

2. 	
Fire protection using an approved water-spray system. 


2306.7.9.2.2.1 Distance from dispensing devices. Vapor-processing equipment shall be located a minimum of 20 feet (6096 mm) from dispensing devices. 
2306.7.9.2.2.2 Physical protection. Vapor-pro­cessing equipment shall be protected against physical damage by guardrails, curbs, protective enclosures or fencing. Where approved protec­tive enclosures are used, approved means shall be provided to ventilate the volume within the enclosure to prevent pocketing of flammable vapors. 
2306.7.9.2.2.3 Downslopes. Where a downslope exists toward the location of the vapor-processing unit from a fuel-transfer area, the fire code offi­cial is authorized to require additional separation by distance and height. 

2306.7.9.2.3 Installation. Vapor-processing units shall be securely mounted on concrete, masonry or structural steel supports on concrete or other non­combustible foundations. Vapor-recovety and vapor­processing equipment is allowed to be installed on roofs when approved. 
2306.7.9.2.4 Piping. Piping in a mechanical-assist system shall be in accordance with Section 5703.6. 
2306.8 Alcohol-blended fuel-dispensing operations. The design, fabrication and installation of alcohol-blended fuel­dispensing systems shall also be in accordance with Section 2306.7 and Sections 2306.8.1 through 2306.8.5. 
2306.8.1 Approval of equipment. Dispensers, hoses, nozzles, breakaway fittings, swivels, flexible connectors or dispenser emergency shutoff valves, vapor recovery systems, leak detection devices and pumps used in alco­hol-blended fuel-dispensing systems shall be listed or approved for the specific purpose. 
2306.8.2 Change of system contents. Fuel-dispensing systems subject to change in contents from gasoline to alcohol-blended fuels shall be subject to fire code official review and approval prior to commencing dispensing operations. 
2306.8.3 Facility identification. Facilities dispensing alcohol-blended fuels shall be identified by an approved means. 
2306.8.4 Marking. Dispensers shall be marked in an approved manner to identify the types of alcohol-blended fuels to be dispensed. 
2306.8.5 Maintenance and inspection. Equipment shall be maintained and inspected in accordance with Section 2305.2. 
SECTION 2307 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS MOTOR 
FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES 

2307.1 General. Motor fuel-dispensing facilities for lique­fied petroleum gas (LP-gas) fuel shall be in accordance with this section and Chapter 61. 
2307.2 Approvals. Storage vessels and equipment used for the storage or dispensing of LP-gas shall be approved or listed in accordance with Sections 2307.2.1 and 2307.2.2. 
2307.2.1 Approved equipment. Containers, pressure relief devices (including pressure relief valves), pressure regulators and piping for LP-gas shall be approved. 
2307.2.2 Listed equipment. Hoses, hose connections, vehicle fuel connections, dispensers, LP-gas pumps and electrical equipment used for LP-gas shall be listed. 
2307.3 Attendants. Motor fuel-dispensing operations for LP­gas shall be conducted by qualified attendants or in accor­dance with Section 2307.6 by persons trained in the proper handling of LP-gas. 
2307.4 Location of dispensing operations and equipment. In addition to the requirements of Section 2306.7, the point of transfer for LP-gas dispensing operations shall be 25 feet (7620 mm) or more from buildings having combustible exte­rior wall surfaces, buildings having noncombustible exterior wall surfaces that are not part of a 1-hour fire-resistance-rated assembly, or buildings having combustible overhangs, lot lines of property which could be built on, public streets, or sidewalks and railroads; and at least 10 feet (3048 mm) from driveways and buildings having noncombustible exterior wall surfaces that are part of a fire-resistance-rated assembly hav­ing a rating of 1 hour or more. 
Exception: The point of transfer for LP-gas dispensing operations need not be separated from canopies that are constructed in accordance with the California Building Code and which provide weather protection for the dis­pensing equipment. 
LP-gas containers shall be located in accordance with Chapter 61. LP-gas storage and dispensing equipment shall be located outdoors and in accordance with Section 2306.7. 
2307.5 Installation of LP-gas dispensing devices and equipment. The installation and operation of LP-gas dispens­ing systems shall be in accordance with Sections 2307.5.1 through 2307.5.3 and Chapter 61. LP-gas dispensers and dis­pensing stations shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and their listing. 
2307.5.1 Valves. A manual shutoff valve and an excess flow-control check valve shall be located in the liquid line between the pump and the dispenser inlet where the dis­pensing device is installed at a remote location and is not part of a complete storage and dispensing unit mounted on a common base. 
An excess flow-control check valve or an emergency shutoff valve shall be installed in or on the dispenser at the point at which the dispenser hose is connected to the liquid piping. A differential backpressure valve shall be consid­ered equivalent protection. 
A listed shutoff valve shall be located at the discharge end of the transfer hose. 
2307.5.2 Hoses. Hoses and piping for the dispensing of LP-gas shall be provided with hydrostatic relief valves. The hose length shall not exceed 18 feet (5486 mm). An approved method shall be provided to protect the hose against mechanical damage. 
2307.5.3 Vehicle impact protection. Vehicle impact pro­tection for LP-gas storage containers, pumps and dispens­ers shall be provided in accordance with Section 2306.4. 

2307.6 Private fueling of motor vehicles. Self-service LP­gas dispensing systems, including key, code and card lock dispensing systems, shall not be open to the public and shall be limited to the filling of permanently mounted fuel contain­ers on LP-gas powered vehicles. 
In addition to the requirements of Sections 2305 and 2306.7, self-service LP-gas dispensing systems shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
The system shall be provided with an emergency shut­off switch located within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of, but not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) from, dispensers. 

2. 	
The owner of the LP-gas motor fuel-dispensing facility shall provide for the safe operation of the system and the training of users. 



2307.7 Overfilling. LP-gas containers shall not be filled in excess of the fixed outage installed by the manufacturer or the weight stamped on the tank. 
SECTION 2308 
COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS MOTOR 
FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES 


2308.1 General. Motor fuel-dispensing facilities for com­pressed natural gas (CNG) fuel shall be in accordance with this section and Chapter 53. 
2308.2 Approvals. Storage vessels and equipment used for the storage, compression or dispensing of CNG shall be approved or listed in accordance with Sections 2308.2.1 and 2308.2.2. 
2308.2.1 Approved equipment. Containers, compressors, pressure relief devices (including pressure relief valves), and pressure regulators and piping used for CNG shall be approved. 

MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
2308.2.2 Listed equipment. Hoses, hose connections, dis­pensers, gas detection systems and electrical equipment used for CNG shall be listed. Vehicle-fueling connections shall be listed and labeled. 
2308.3 Location of dispensing operations and equipment. Compression, storage and dispensing equipment shall be located above ground, outside. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Compression, storage or dispensing equipment shall be allowed in buildings of noncombustible construc­tion, as set forth in the California Building Code, which are unenclosed for three-quarters or more of the perimeter. 

2. 	
Compression, storage and dispensing equipment shall be allowed indoors or in vaults in accordance with Chapter 53. 



2308.3.1 Location on property. In addition to the requirements of Section 2303.1, compression, storage and dispensing equipment not located in vaults complying with Chapter 53 shall be installed as follows: 
1. 	
Not beneath power lines. 

2. 	
Ten feet (3048 mm) or more from the nearest build­ing or lot line that could be built on, public street, sidewalk or source of ignition. 

Exception: Dispensing equipment need not be separated from canopies that are constructed in accordance with the California Building Code and that provide weather protection for the dis­pensing equipment. 

3. 	
Twenty-five feet (7620 mm) or more from the near­est rail of any railroad track and 50 feet (15 240 mm) or more from the nearest rail of any railroad main track or any railroad or transit line where power for train propulsion is provided by an outside electrical source, such as third rail or overhead catenary. 

4. 	
Fifty feet (15 240 mm) or more from the vertical plane below the nearest overhead wire of a trolley bus line. 



2308.4 Private fueling of motor vehicles. Self-service CNG-dispensing systems, including key, code and card lock dispensing systems, shall be limited to the filling of perma­nently mounted fuel containers on CNG-powered vehicles. 
In addition to the requirements in Section 2305, the owner of a self-service CNG motor fuel-dispensing facility shall ensure the safe operation of the system and the training of users. 
2308.5 Pressure regulators. Pressure regulators shall be designed and installed or protected so that their operation will not be affected by the elements (freezing rain, sleet, snow or ice), mud or debris. The protection is allowed to be an inte­gral part of the regulator. 
2308.6 Valves. Gas piping to equipment shall be provided with a remote, readily accessible manual shutoff valve. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2308.7 Emergency shutdown control. An emergency shut­down control shall be located within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of, but not less than 25 feet (7620 mm) from, dispensers and shall also be provided in the compressor area. Upon activa­tion, the emergency shutdown system shall automatically shut off the power supply to the compressor and close valves between the main gas supply and the compressor and between the storage containers and dispensers. 
2308.8 Discharge of CNG from motor vehicle fuel storage containers. The discharge of CNG from motor vehicle fuel cylinders for the purposes of maintenance, cylinder certifica­tion, calibration of dispensers or other activities shall be in accordance with Sections 2308.8.1 through 2308.8.1.2.6. 
2308.8.1 Methods of discharge. The discharge of CNG from motor vehicle fuel cylinders shall be accomplished through a closed transfer system in accordance with Sec­tion 2308.8.1.1 or an approved method of atmospheric venting in accordance with Section 2308.8.1.2. 
2308.8.1.1 Closed transfer system. A documented procedure that explains the logical sequence for dis­charging the cylinder shall be provided to the fire code official for review and approval. The procedure shall include what actions the operator will take in the event of a low-pressure or high-pressure natural gas release during the discharging activity. A drawing illustrating the arrangement of piping, regulators and equipment settings shall be provided to the fire code official for review and approval. The drawing shall illustrate the piping and regulator anangement and shall be shown in spatial relation to the location of the compressor, stor­age vessels and emergency shutdown devices. 
2308.8.1.2 Atmospheric venting. Atmospheric vent­ing of CNG shall comply with Sections 2308.8.1.2.1 through 2308.8.1.2.6. 
2308.8.1.2.1 Plans and specifications. A drawing illustrating the location of the vessel support, piping, the method of grounding and bonding, and other requirements specified herein shall be provided to the fire code official for review and approval. 
2308.8.1.2.2 Cylinder stability. A method of rig­idly supporting the vessel during the venting of CNG shall be provided. The selected method shall provide not less than two points of support and shall prevent the horizontal and lateral movement of the vessel. The system shall be designed to prevent the movement of the vessel based on the highest gas­release velocity through valve orifices at the vessel's rated pressure and volume. The stmcture or appurte­nance shall be constmcted of noncombustible mate­rials. 

2308.8.1.2.3 Separation. The structure or appurte­nance used for stabilizing the cylinder shall be sepa­rated from the site equipment, features and exposures and shall be located in accordance with Table 2308.8.1.2.3. 
TABLE 2308.8.1.2.3 

SEPARATION DISTANCE FOR ATMOSPHERIC VENTING OF CNG 

EQUIPMENT OR FEATURE  MINIMUM SEPARATION (feet)  
Buildings  25  
Building openings  25  
CNG compressor and storage vessels  25  
CNG dispensers  25  
Lot lines  15  
Public ways  15  
Vehicles  25  

For SI: 1 foot =304.8 mm. 
2308.8.1.2.4 Grounding and bonding. The stmc­ture or appurtenance used for supporting the cylin­der shall be grounded in accordance with California Electrical Code. The cylinder valve shall be bonded prior to the commencement of venting operations. 
2308.8.1.2.5 Vent tube. A vent tube that will divert the gas flow to atmosphere shall be installed on the cylinder prior to commencement of the venting and purging operation. The vent tube shall be con­structed of pipe or tubing materials approved for use with CNG in accordance with Chapter 53. 
The vent tube shall be capable of dispersing the gas a minimum of 10 feet (3048 mm) above grade level. The vent tube shall not be provided with a rain cap or other feature which would limit or obstruct the gas flow. 
At the connection fitting of the vent tube and the CNG cylinder, a listed bidirectional detonation flame atTester shall be provided. 
2308.8.1.2.6 Signage. Approved "No Smoking" signs complying with Section 310 shall be posted within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the cylinder support structure or appurtenance. Approved CYLINDER SHALL BE BONDED signs shall be posted on the cylinder support structure or appurtenance. 
SECTION 2309 
HYDROGEN MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING AND 
GENERATION FACILITIES 

2309.1 General. Hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing and gener­ation facilities shall be in accordance with this section and Chapter 58. Where a fuel-dispensing facility also includes a repair garage, the repair operation shall comply with Section 2311. 
2309.2 Equipment. Equipment used for the generation, com­pression, storage or dispensing of hydrogen shall be designed for the specific application in accordance with Sections 2309.2.1 through 2309.2.3. 
2309.2.1 Approved equipment. Cylinders, containers and tanks; pressure relief devices, including pressure valves; hydrogen vaporizers; pressure regulators; and piping used 
MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
for gaseous hydrogen systems shall be designed and con­structed in accordance with Chapters 53, 55 and 58. 
2309.2.2 Listed or approved equipment. Hoses, hose connections, compressors, hydrogen generators, dispens­ers, detection systems and electrical equipment used for hydrogen shall be listed or approved for use with hydro­gen. Hydrogen motor-fueling connections shall be listed and labeled or approved for use with hydrogen. 
2309.2.3 Electrical equipment. Electrical installations shall be in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
2309.3 Location on property. In addition to the require­ments of Section 2303.1, dispensing equipment shall be located in accordance with Sections 2309.3.1 through Section 2309.3.2. 
• 	1 2309.3.1 Location of operations and equipment. Gener­ation, compression, storage and dispensing equipment shall be located in accordance with Sections 2309.3 .1.1 through 2309.3.1.5.5. 
2309.3.1.1 Outdoors. Generation, compression, or storage equipment shall be allowed outdoors in accor­dance with Chapter 58. 
2309.3.1.2 Indoors. Generation, compression, storage and dispensing equipment shall be located in indoor rooms or areas constructed in accordance with the requirements of the California Building Code, the Cali­fornia Mechanical Code and one of the following: 
1. 	
Inside a building in a hydrogen cutoff room designed and constructed in accordance with Sec­tion 421 of the California Building Code. 

2. 	
Inside a building not in a hydrogen cutoff room where the gaseous hydrogen system is listed and labeled for indoor installation and installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions. 

3. 	
Inside a building in a dedicated hydrogen fuel­dispensing area having an aggregate hydrogen delivery capacity no greater than 12 standard cubic feet per minute (SCFM) and designed and constructed in accordance with Section 703.1 of the California Mechanical Code. 


2309.3.1.2.1 Maintenance. Gaseous hydrogen sys­tems and detection devices shall be maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 
2309.3.1.2.2 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited in hydrogen cutoff rooms. "No Smoking" signs shall be provided at all entrances to hydrogen cutoff rooms. 
2309.3.1.2.3 Ignition source control. Open flames, flame-producing devices and other sources of igni­tion shall be controlled in accordance with Chapter 
58. 
2309.3.1.2.4 Housekeeping. Hydrogen cutoff rooms shall be kept free from combustible debris and storage. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2309.3.1.3 Gaseous hydrogen storage. Storage of gas­eous hydrogen shall be in accordance with Chapters 53 and 58. 
2309.3.1.4 Liquefied hydrogen storage. Storage of liquefied hydrogen shall be in accordance with Chap­ters 55 and 58. 
•
2309.3.1.5 Canopy tops. Gaseous hydrogen compres­sion and storage equipment located on top of motor fuel-dispensing facility canopies shall be in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
2309.3.1.5.1 Construction. Canopies shall be con­structed in accordance with the motor fuel-dispens­ing facility canopy requirements of Section 406.7 of the California Building Code. 
2309.3.1.5.2 Fire-extinguishing systems. Fuel-dis­pensing areas under canopies shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The design of the sprinkler system shall not be less than that required for Extra Hazard Group 2 occupancies. Operation of the sprinkler system shall activate the emergency functions of Sections 2309.3 .1.5 .3 and 2309.3.1.5.4. 
2309.3.1.5.3 Emergency discharge. Operation of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate an automatic emergency discharge system, which will discharge the hydrogen gas from the equipment on the canopy top through the vent pipe system. 
2309.3.1.5.4 Emergency shutdown control. Opera­tion of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate the emergency shutdown control required by Sec­tion 2309.5.3. 
2309.3.1.5.5 Signage. Approved signage having 2­inch (51 mm) block letters shall be affixed at approved locations on the exterior of the canopy structure stating: CANOPY TOP HYDROGEN STORAGE. 

2309.3.2 Canopies. Dispensing equipment need not be separated from canopies of Type I or II construction that are constructed in a manner that prevents the accumulation of hydrogen gas and in accordance with Section 406.7 of the California Building Code. 
2309.4 Dispensing into motor vehicles at self-service hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Self-service hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing systems, including key, code and card lock dispensing systems, shall be limited to the fill­ing of permanently mounted fuel containers on hydrogen­powered vehicles. 
In addition to the requirements in Section 2311, the owner of a self-service hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing facility shall provide for the safe operation of the system through the insti­tution of a fire safety plan submitted in accordance with Sec­tion 404, the training of employees and operators who use and maintain the system in accordance with Section 406, and provisions for hazard communication in accordance with Section 407. 
2309.4.1 Dispensing systems. Dispensing systems shall be equipped with an overpressure protection device set at 140 percent of the service pressure of the fueling nozzle it supplies. 
2309.5 Safety precautions. Safety precautions at hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing and generation facilities shall be in accordance with Sections 2309.5.1 through 2309.5.3.1. 
2309.5.1 Protection from vehicles. Guard posts or other approved means shall be provided to protect hydrogen storage systems and use areas subject to vehicular damage in accordance with Section 312. 
2309.5.1.1 Vehicle fueling pad. The vehicle shall be fueled on noncoated concrete or other approved paving material having a resistance not exceeding 1 megohm as determined by the methodology specified in EN 1081. 
2309.5.2 Emergency shutoff valves. A manual emer­gency shutoff valve shall be provided to shut down the flow of gas from the hydrogen supply to the piping sys­tem. 
2309.5.2.1 Identification. Manual emergency shutoff valves shall be identified and the location shall be clearly visible, accessible and indicated by means of a sign. 
2309.5.3 Emergency shutdown controls. In addition to the manual emergency shutoff valve required by Section 2309.5.2, a remotely located, manually activated emer­gency shutdown control shall be provided. An emergency shutdown control shall be located within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of, but not less than 25 feet (7620 mm) from, dis­pensers and hydrogen generators. 
2309.5.3.1 System requirements. Activation of the emergency shutdown control shall automatically shut off the power supply to all hydrogen storage, compres­sion and dispensing equipment; shut off natural gas or other fuel supply to the hydrogen generator; and close valves between the main supply and the compressor and between the storage containers and dispensing equipment. 
SECTION 231 0 
MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES 

2310.1 General. The construction of marine motor fuel-dis­pensing facilities shall be in accordance with the California Building Code and NFP A 30A. The storage of Class I, II or IliA liquids at marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 57. 
2310.2 Storage and handling. The storage and handling of Class I, II or lilA liquids at marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be in accordance with Sections 2310.2.1 through 2310.2.3. 
2310.2.1 Class I, II or IliA liquid storage. Class I, II or IliA liquids stored inside of buildings used for marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be stored in approved containers or portable tanks. Storage of Class I liquids shall not exceed 10 gallons (38 L). 
Exception: Storage in liquid storage rooms in accor­
dance with Section 5704.3.7. 2310.2.2 Class II or IliA liquid storage and dispensing. Class II or IliA liquids stored or dispensed inside of build­ings used for marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be stored in and dispensed from approved containers or portable tanks. Storage of Class II and IliA liquids shall not exceed 120 gallons (454 L). 
2310.2.3 Heating equipment. Heating equipment installed in Class I, II or IliA liquid storage or dispensing areas shall comply with Section 2301.6. 
2310.3 Dispensing. The dispensing of liquid fuels at marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2310.3.1 through 2310.3.5. 
2310.3.1 General. Wharves, piers or floats at marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be used exclusively for the dispensing or transfer of petroleum products to or from marine craft, except that transfer of essential ship stores is allowed. 
2310.3.2 Supervision. Marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall have an attendant or supervisor who is fully aware of the operation, mechanics and hazards inherent to fueling of boats on duty whenever the facility is open for business. The attendant's primary function shall be to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of Class I, II or IliA liquids or flammable gases. 
2310.3.3 Hoses and nozzles. Dispensing of Class I, II or IliA liquids into the fuel tanks of marine craft shall be by means of an approved-type hose equipped with a listed automatic-closing nozzle without a latch-open device. 
Hoses used for dispensing or transferring Class I, II or IliA liquids, when not in use, shall be reeled, racked or otherwise protected from mechanical damage. 
2310.3.4 Portable containers. Dispensing of Class I, II or IliA liquids into containers, other than fuel tanks, shall be in accordance with Section 2304.4.1. 
2310.3.5 Liquefied petroleum gas. Liquefied petroleum gas cylinders shall not be filled at marine motor fuel-dis­pensing facilities unless approved. Approved storage facil­ities for LP-gas cylinders shall be provided. See also Section 2307. 
2310.4 Fueling of marine vehicles at other than approved marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities. Fueling of floating marine craft at other than a marine motor fuel-dispensing facility shall comply with Sections 2310.4.1 and 2310.4.2. 
2310.4.1 Class I liquid fuels. Fueling of floating marine craft with Class I fuels at other than a marine motor fuel­dispensing facility is prohibited. 
2310.4.2 Class II or III liquid fuels. Fueling of floating marine craft with Class II or III fuels at other than a marine motor fuel-dispensing facility shall be in accor­dance with all of the following: 
1. 	
The premises and operations shall be approved by the fire code official. 

2. 	
Tank vehicles and fueling operations shall comply with Section 5706.6. 

3. 	
The dispensing nozzle shall be of the listed auto­matic-closing type without a latch-open device. 

4. 
Nighttime deliveries shall only be made in lighted areas. 

5. 	
The tank vehicle flasher lights shall be in operation while dispensing. 

6. 	
Fuel expansion space shall be left in each fuel tank to prevent overflow in the event of temperature increase. 



2310.5 Fire prevention regulations. General fire safety reg­ulations for marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2310.5.1 through 2310.5.7. 
2310.5.1 Housekeeping. Marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Accumulations of rubbish or waste oils in excessive amounts shall be prohibited. 
2310.5.2 Spills. Spills of Class I, II or IliA liquids at or on the water shall be reported immediately to the fire depart­ment and jurisdictional authorities. 
2310.5.3 Rubbish containers. Metal containers with tight-fitting or self-closing metal lids shall be provided for the temporary storage of combustible trash or rubbish. 
2310.5.4 Marine vessels and craft. Vessels or craft shall not be made fast to fuel docks serving other vessels or craft occupying a berth at a marine motor fuel-dispensing facility. 
2310.5.5 Sources of ignition. Construction, maintenance, repair and reconditioning work involving the use of open flames, arcs or spark-producing devices shall not be per­formed at marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities or within5? feet (15 240 mm) of the dispensing facilities, including piers, wharves or floats, except for emergency repair work approved in writing by the fire code official. Fueling shall not be conducted at the pier, wharf or float during the course of such emergency repairs. 
2310.5.5.1 Smoking. Smoking or open flames shall be prohibited within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of fueling opera­tions. "No Smoking" signs complying with Section 310 shall be posted conspicuously about the premises. Such signs shall have letters not less than 4 inches (102 mm) in height on a background of contrasting color. 
2310.5.6 Preparation of tanks for fueling. Boat owners and operators shall not offer their craft for fueling unless the tanks being filled are properly vented to dissipate fumes to the outside atmosphere. 
2310.5.7 Warning signs. Warning signs shall be promi­nently displayed at the face of each wharf, pier or float at 

MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
such elevation as to be clearly visible from the decks of marine craft being fueled. Such signs shall have letters not less than 3 inches (76 mm) in height on a background of contrasting color bearing the following or approved equiv­alent wording: 
WARNING 

NO SMOKING-STOP ENGINE WHILE FUELING, 
SHUT OFF ELECTRICITY 

DO NOT START ENGINE UNTIL AFTER BELOW 
DECK SPACES ARE VENTILATED. 


2310.6 Fire protection. Fire protection features for marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Sections 2310.6.1 through 2310.6.4. 
2~10.6.1 Standpipe hose stations. Fire hose, where pro­vided, shall be enclosed within a cabinet, and hose stations shall be labeled: FIRE HOSE-EMERGENCY USE ONLY. 
2310.6.2 Obstruction of fire protection equipment. Materials shall not be placed on a pier in such a manner as to obstruct access to fire-fighting equipment or piping sys­tem control valves. 
2310.6.3 Access. Where the pier is accessible to vehicular traffic, an unobstructed roadway to the shore end of the wharf shall be maintained for access by fire apparatus. 
2310.6.4 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extin­g~is.hers in ~ccordance with Section 906, each having a mmimum ratmg of 20-B:C, shall be provided as follows: 
1. 	
One on each float. 

2. 	
One on the pier or wharf within 25 feet (7620 mm) of the head of the gangway to the float, unless the off~ce is within 25 feet (7620 mm) of the gangway or IS on the float and an extinguisher is provided thereon. 


SECTION 2311 
REPAIR GARAGES 


2311.1 General. Repair garages shall comply with this sec­tion. and the California Building Code. Repair garages for vehicles that use more than one type of fuel shall comply with the applicable provisions of this section for each type of fuel used. 
Where a repair garage also includes a motor fuel-dispens­ing facility, the fuel-dispensing operation shall comply with the requirements of this chapter for motor fuel-dispensing facilities. 
2~11.2 Storage and use of flammable and combustible liq­u~ds..The sto.rage and use of flammable and combustible liq­mds m repmr garages shall comply with Chapter 57 and Sections 2311.2.1 through 2311.2.4. 
2311.2.1 Cleaning of parts. Cleaning of parts shall be conducted in listed and approved parts-cleaning machines in accordance with Chapter 57. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2311.2.2 Waste oil, motor oil and other Class IIIB liq­uids. Waste oil, motor oil and other Class IIIB liquids shall be stored in approved tanks or containers, which are allowed to be stored and dispensed from inside repair garages. 
2311.2.2.1 Tank location. Tanks storing Class IIIB liq­uids in repair garages are allowed to be located at, below or above grade, provided that adequate drainage or containment is provided. 
2311.2.2.2 Liquid classification. Crankcase drainings shall be classified as Class IIIB liquids unless otherwise determined by testing. 
2311.2.3 Drainage and disposal of liquids and oil­soaked waste. Garage floor drains, where provided, shall drain to approved oil separators or traps discharging to a sewer in accordance with the California Plumbing Code. Contents of oil separators, traps and floor drainage sys­tems shall be collected at sufficiently frequent intervals and removed from the premises to prevent oil from being carried into the sewers. 
2311.2.3.1 Disposal of liquids. Crankcase drainings and liquids shall not be dumped into sewers, streams or on the ground, but shall be stored in approved tanks or containers in accordance with Chapter 57 until removed from the premises. 
2311.2.3.2 Disposal of oily waste. Self-closing metal cans shall be used for oily waste. 
2311.2.4 Spray finishing. Spray finishing with flammable or combustible liquids shall comply with Chapter 24. 
2311.3 Sources of ignition. Sources of ignition shall not be located within 18 inches ( 457 mm) of the floor and shall com­ply with Chapters 3 and 35. 
2311.3.1 Equipment. Appliances and equipment installed in a repair garage shall comply with the provisions of the California Building Code, the California Mechanical Code and the California Electrical Code. 
2311.3.2 Smoking. Smoking shall not be allowed in repair garages except in approved locations. 
2311.4 Below-grade areas. Pits and below-grade work areas in repair garages shall comply with Sections 2311.4.1 through 2311.4.3. 
2311.4.1 Construction. Pits and below-grade work areas shall be constmcted in accordance with the California Building Code. 
2311.4.2 Means of egress. Pits and below-grade work areas shall be provided with means of egress in accordance with Chapter 10. 
2311.4.3 Ventilation. Where Class I liquids or LP-gas are stored or used within a building having a basement or pit wherein flammable vapors could accumulate, the base­ment or pit shall be provided with mechanical ventilation in accordance with the California Mechanical Code, at a minimum rate of 11/ 2 cubic feet per minute per square foot (cfm/fe) [0.008 m3/(s • m2)] to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors. 
2311.5 Preparation of vehicles for repair. For vehicles powered by gaseous fuels, the fuel shutoff valves shall be closed prior to repairing any portion of the vehicle fuel sys­tem. 
Vehicles powered by gaseous fuels in which the fuel sys­tem has been damaged shall be inspected and evaluated for fuel system integrity prior to being brought into the repair garage. The inspection shall include testing of the entire fuel delivery system for leakage. 
2311.6 Fire extinguishers. Fire extinguishers shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 906. 
2311.7 Repair garages for vehicles fueled by lighter-than­air fuels. Repair garages for the conversion and repair of vehicles which use CNG, liquefied natural gas (LNG), hydro­gen or other lighter-than-air motor fuels shall be in accor­dance with Sections 2311.7 through 2311.7.2.3 in addition to the other requirements of Section 2311. 
Exception: Repair garages where work is not performed on the fuel system and is limited to exchange of parts and maintenance requiring no open flame or welding. 
2311.7.1 Ventilation. Repair garages used for the repair of natural gas-or hydrogen-fueled vehicles shall be pro­vided with an approved mechanical ventilation system. The mechanical ventilation system shall be in accordance with the California Mechanical Code and Sections 2311.7.1.1 and 2311.7.1.2. 
Exception: Repair garages with natural ventilation when approved. 
2311.7.1.1 Design. Indoor locations shall be ventilated utilizing air supply inlets and exhaust outlets an·anged to provide uniform air movement to the extent practi­cal. Inlets shall be uniformly arranged on exterior walls near floor level. Outlets shall be located at the high point of the room in exterior walls or the roof. 
Ventilation shall be by a continuous mechanical ventilation system or by a mechanical ventilation sys­tem activated by a continuously monitoring natural gas detection system or, for hydrogen, a continuously mon­itoring flammable gas detection system, each activating at a gas concentration of not more than 25 percent of the lower flammable limit (LFL). In all cases, the sys­tem shall shut down the fueling system in the event of failure of the ventilation system. 
The ventilation rate shall be at least 1 cubic foot per minute per 12 cubic feet [0.00139 m3 x (s • m3)] of room volume. 
2311.7.1.2 Operation. The mechanical ventilation sys­tem shall operate continuously. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Mechanical ventilation systems that are inter­locked with a gas detection system designed in accordance with Sections 2311.7.2 through 2311.7.2.3. 

2. 	
Mechanical ventilation systems in repair garages that are used only for repair of vehi­cles fueled by liquid fuels or odorized gases, 



MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES AND REPAIR GARAGES 
such as CNG, where the ventilation system is electrically interlocked with the lighting cir­cuit. 
2311.7.2 Gas detection system. Repair garages used for repair of vehicles fueled by nonodorized gases, such as hydrogen and nonodorized LNG, shall be provided with a flammable gas detection system. 
2311.7.2.1 System design. The flammable gas detec­tion system shall be listed or approved and shall be cal­ibrated to the types of fuels or gases used by vehicles to be repaired. The gas detection system shall be designed to activate when the level of flammable gas exceeds 25 percent of the lower flammable limit (LFL). Gas detec­tion shall also be provided in lubrication or chassis ser­vice pits of repair garages used for repairing nonodorized LNG-fueled vehicles. 
2311.7.2.1.1 Gas detection system components. Gas detection system control units shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 864 or UL 2017. Gas detectors shall be listed and labeled in accor­dance with UL 2075 for use with the gases and vapors being detected. 
2311.7.2.2 Operation. Activation of the gas detection system shall result in all the following: 
I. Initiation of distinct audible and visual alarm sig­nals in the repair garage. 
2. 	
Deactivation of all heating systems located in the repair garage. 

3. 	
Activation of the mechanical ventilation system, when the system is interlocked with gas detec­tion. 


2311.7.2.3 Failure of the gas detection system. Fail­ure of the gas detection system shall result in the deacti­vation of the heating system, activation of the mechanical ventilation system and where the system is interlocked with gas detection and causes a trouble sig­nal to sound in an approved location. 

2311.8 Defueling of hydrogen from motor vehicle fuel storage containers. The discharge or defueling of hydrogen from motor vehicle fuel storage tanks for the purpose of maintenance, cylinder certification, calibration of dispensers or other activities shall be in accordance with Sections 2311.8.1 through 2311.8.1.2.4. 
2311.8.1 Methods of discharge. The discharge of hydro­gen from motor vehicle fuel storage tanks shall be accom­plished through a closed transfer system in accordance with Section 2311.8.1.1 or an approved method of atmo­spheric venting in accordance with Section 2311.8.1.2. 
2311.8.1.1 Closed transfer system. A documented procedure that explains the logic sequence for discharg­ing the storage tank shall be provided to the fire code official for review and approval. The procedure shall include what actions the operator is required to take in the event of a low-pressure or high-pressure hydrogen release during discharging activity. Schematic design documents shall be provided illustrating the arrange­ment of piping, regulators and equipment settings. The construction documents shall illustrate the piping and regulator arrangement and shall be shown in spatial relation to the location of the compressor, storage ves­sels and emergency shutdown devices. 
2311.8.1.2 Atmospheric venting of hydrogen from motor vehicle fuel storage containers. When atmo­spheric venting is used for the discharge of hydrogen from motor vehicle fuel storage tanks, such venting shall be in accordance with Sections 2311.8.1.2.1 through 2311.8.1.2.4. 
2311.8.1.2.1 Defueling equipment required at vehicle maintenance and repair facilities. All facilities for repairing hydrogen systems on hydro­gen-fueled vehicles shall have equipment to defuel vehicle storage tanks. Equipment used for defueling shall be listed and labeled for the intended use. 
2311.8.1.2.1.1 Manufacturer's equipment required. Equipment supplied by the vehicle manufacturer shall be used to connect the vehicle storage tanks to be defueled to the vent pipe sys­tem. 
2311.8.1.2.1.2 Vent pipe maximum diameter. Defueling vent pipes shall have a maximum inside diameter of 1 inch (25 mm). 
2311.8.1.2.1.3 Maximum flow rate. The maxi­mum rate of hydrogen flow through the vent pipe system shall not exceed 1,000 cfm at NTP (0.47 m3/s) and shall be controlled by means of the manufacturer's equipment, at low pressure and without adjustment. 
2311.8.1.2.1.4 Isolated use. The vent pipe used for defueling shall not be connected to another venting system used for any other purpose. 
2311.8.1.2.2 Construction documents. Construc­tion documents shall be provided illustrating the defueling system to be utilized. Plan details shall be of sufficient detail and clarity to allow for evaluation of the piping and control systems to be utilized and include the method of support for cylinders, contain­ers or tanks to be used as part of a closed transfer system, the method of grounding and bonding, and other requirements specified herein. 
2311.8.1.2.3 Stability of cylinders, containers and tanks. A method of rigidly supporting cylinders, containers or tanks used during the closed transfer system discharge or defueling of hydrogen shall be provided. The method shall provide not less than two points of support and shall be designed to resist lateral movement of the receiving cylinder, con­tainer or tank. The system shall be designed to resist movement of the receiver based on the highest gas­release velocity through valve orifices at the receiver's rated service pressure and volume. Sup­porting structure or appurtenance used to support receivers shall be constructed of noncombustible 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
materials in accordance with the California Building 
Code. 
2311.8.1.2.4 Grounding and bonding. Cylinders, containers or tanks and piping systems used for defueling shall be bonded and grounded. Structures or appurtenances used for supporting the cylinders, containers or tanks shall be grounded in accordance with California Electrical Code. The valve of the vehicle storage tank shall be bonded with the defuel­ing system prior to the commencement of discharge or defueling operations. 

2311.8.2 Repair of hydrogen piping. Piping systems containing hydrogen shall not be opened to the atmosphere for repair without first purging the piping with an inert gas to achieve 1 percent hydrogen or less by volume. Defuel­ing operations and exiting purge flow shall be vented in accordance with Section 2311.8.1.2. 
2311.8.3 Purging. Each individual manufactured compo­nent of a hydrogen generating, compression, storage or dispensing system shall have a label affixed as well as a description in the installation and owner's manuals describing the procedure for purging air from the system during startup, regular maintenance and for purging hydrogen from the system prior to disassembly (to admit air). 
For the interconnecting piping between the individual manufactured components, the pressure rating must be at least 20 times the absolute pressure present in the piping when any hydrogen meets any air. 
2311.8.3.1 System purge required. After installation, repair or maintenance, the hydrogen piping system shall be purged of air in accordance with the manufac­turer's procedure for purging air from the system. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 24-FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  1  2  3  4  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  
2407.2  X  


..
...

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISion I proviSions that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 24 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
SECTION 2401 
GENERAL 


2401.1 Scope. This chapter shall apply to locations or areas where any of the following activities are conducted: 
1. 	
The application of flammable finishes to articles or materials by means of spray apparatus. 

2. 	
The application of flammable finishes by dipping or immersing articles or materials into the contents of tanks, vats or containers of flammable or combustible liquids for coating, finishing, treatment or similar pro­cesses. 

3. 	
The application of flammable finishes by applying combustible powders to articles or materials utilizing powder spray guns, electrostatic powder spray guns, fluidized beds or electrostatic fluidized beds. 

4. 	
Floor surfacing or finishing operations using Class I or II liquids in areas exceeding 350 square feet (32.5 m2). 

5. 	
The application of flammable finishes consisting of dual-component coatings or Class I or II liquids when applied by brush or roller in quantities exceeding 1 gal­lon (4 L). 


2401.2 Nonapplicability. This chapter shall not apply to spray finishing utilizing flammable or combustible liquids which do not sustain combustion, including: 
1. 	
Liquids that have no fire point when tested in accor­dance with ASTM D 92. 

2. 	
Liquids with a flashpoint greater than 95°F (35°C) in a water-miscible solution or dispersion with a water and inert (noncombustible) solids content of more than 80 percent by weight. 


2401.3 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
SECTION 2402 
DEFINITIONS 


2402.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­
ter 2: 
DETEARING. 
DIP TANK. 
ELECTROSTATIC FLUIDIZED BED. 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES. 
FLAMMABLE VAPOR AREA. 
FLUIDIZED BED. 
LIMITED SPRAYING SPACE. 
RESIN APPLICATION AREA. 
ROLL COATING. 
SPRAY BOOTH. 
SPRAY ROOM. 
SPRAYING SPACE. 

SECTION 2403 
PROTECTION OF OPERATIONS 


2403.1 General. Operations covered by this chapter shall be protected as required by Sections 2403.2 through 2403.4.4. 
2403.2 Sources of ignition. Protection against sources of 
ignition shall be provided in accordance with Sections 
2403.2.1 through 2403.2.8. 
2403.2.1 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equipment shall comply with this chapter and 
California Electrical Code. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
2403.2.1.1 Flammable vapor areas. Electrical wiring and equipment in flammable vapor areas shall be of an explosion proof type approved for use in such hazard­ous locations. Such areas shall be considered to be Class I, Division 1 or Class II, Division 1 hazardous locations in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
2403.2.1.2 Areas subject to deposits of residues. Electrical equipment, flammable vapor areas or drying operations that are subject to splashing or dripping of liquids shall be specifically approved for locations con­taining deposits of readily ignitable residue and explo­sive vapors. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
This provision shall not apply to wiring in rigid conduit, threaded boxes or fittings not containing taps, splices or terminal connec­tions. 

2. 	
This provision shall not apply to electrostatic equipment allowed by Section 2407. 



In resin application areas, electrical wiring and equipment that is subject to deposits of combustible residues shall be listed for such exposure and shall be installed as required for hazardous (classified) loca­tions. Electrical wiring and equipment not subject to deposits of combustible residues shall be installed as required for ordinary hazard locations. 
2403.2.1.3 Areas adjacent to spray booths. Electrical wiring and equipment located outside of, but within 5 feet (1524 mm) horizontally and 3 feet (914 mm) verti­cally of openings in a spray booth or a spray room, shall be approved for Class I, Division 2 or Class II, Division 2 hazardous locations, whichever is applica­ble. 
2403.2.1.4 Areas subject to overspray deposits. Elec­trical equipment in flammable vapor areas located such that deposits of combustible residues could readily accumulate thereon shall be specifically approved for locations containing deposits of readily ignitable resi­due and explosive vapors in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Wiring in rigid conduit. 

2. 	
Boxes or fittings not containing taps, splices or terminal connections. 

3. 	
Equipment allowed by Sections 2404 and 2407 and Chapter 30. 



2403.2.2 Open flames and sparks. Open flames and spark-producing devices shall not be located in flammable vapor areas and shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of such areas unless separated by a permanent parti­tion. 
Exception: Drying and baking apparatus complying with Section 2404.6.1.2. 
2403.2.3 Hot surfaces. Heated surfaces having a tempera­ture sufficient to ignite vapors shall not be located in flam­mable vapor areas. Space-heating appliances, steam pipes or hot smfaces in a flammable vapor area shall be located such that they are not subject to accumulation of deposits of combustible residues. 
Exception: Drying apparatus complying with Section 2404.6.1.2. 
2403.2.4 Equipment enclosures. Equipment or apparatus that is capable of producing sparks or particles of hot metal that would fall into a flammable vapor area shall be totally enclosed. 
2403.2.5 Grounding. Metal parts of spray booths, exhaust ducts and piping systems conveying Class I or II liquids shall be electrically grounded in accordance with Califor­nia Electrical Code. Metallic parts located in resin appli­cation areas, including but not limited to exhaust ducts, ventilation fans, spray application equipment, workpieces and piping, shall be electrically grounded. 
2403.2.6 Smoking prohibited. Smoking shall be prohib­ited in flammable vapor areas and hazardous materials storage rooms associated with flammable finish processes. "No Smoking" signs complying with Section 310 shall be conspicuously posted in such areas. 
2403.2.7 Welding warning signs. Welding, cutting and similar spark-producing operations shall not be conducted in or adjacent to flammable vapor areas or dipping or coat­ing operations unless precautions have been taken to pro­vide safety. Conspicuous signs with the following warning shall be posted in the vicinity of flammable vapor areas, dipping operations and paint storage rooms: 
NO WELDING 
THE USE OF WELDING OR CUTTING 
EQUIPMENT IN OR NEAR THIS AREA 
IS DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF FIRE 
AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS. WELDING 
AND CUTTING SHALL BE DONE ONLY 
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE 
PERSON IN CHARGE. 

2403.2.8 Powered industrial trucks. Powered industrial trucks used in electrically classified areas shall be listed for such use. 
2403.3 Storage, use and handling of flammable and com­bustible liquids. The storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with this sec­tion and Chapter 57. 
2403.3.1 Use. Containers supplying spray nozzles shall be of a closed type or provided with metal covers, which are kept closed. Containers not resting on floors shall be on noncombustible supports or suspended by wire cables. Containers supplying spray nozzles by gravity flow shall not exceed 10 gallons (37.9 L) in capacity. 
2403.3.2 Valves. Containers and piping to which a hose or flexible connection is attached shall be provided with a shutoff valve at the connection. Such valves shall be kept shut when hoses are not in use. 
2403.3.3 Pumped liquid supplies. Where flammable or combustible liquids are supplied to spray nozzles by posi­tive displacement pumps, pump discharge lines shall be provided with an approved relief valve discharging to pump suction or a safe detached location. 
2403.3.4 Liquid transfer. Where a flammable mixture is transferred from one portable container to another, a bond shall be provided between the two containers. At least one container shall be grounded. Piping systems for Class I and II liquids shall be permanently grounded. 
2403.3.5 Class I liquids as solvents. Class I liquids used as solvents shall be used in spray gun and equipment cleaning machines that have been listed and approved for such purpose or shall be used in spray booths or spray rooms in accordance with Sections 2403.3.5.1 and 2403.3.5.2. 
2403.3.5.1 Listed devices. Cleaning machines for spray guns and equipment shall not be located in areas open to the public and shall be separated from ignition sources in accordance with their listings or by a dis­tance of 3 feet (914 mm), whichever is greater. The quantity of solvent used in a machine shall not exceed the design capacity of the machine. 
2403.3.5.2 Within spray booths and spray rooms. When solvents are used for cleaning spray nozzles and auxiliary equipment within spray booths and spray rooms, the ventilating equipment shall be operated dur­ing cleaning. 
2403.3.6 Class II and III liquids. Solvents used outside of spray booths, spray rooms or listed and approved spray gun and equipment cleaning machines shall be restricted to Class II and III liquids. 

2403.4 Operations and maintenance. Flammable vapor areas, exhaust fan blades and exhaust ducts shall be kept free from the accumulation of deposits of combustible residues. Where excessive residue accumulates in such areas, spraying operations shall be discontinued until conditions are cor­rected. 
2403.4.1 Tools. Scrapers, spuds and other tools used for cleaning purposes shall be constructed of nonsparking materials. 
2403.4.2 Residue. Residues removed during cleaning and debris contaminated with residue shall be immediately removed from the premises and properly disposed. 
2403.4.3 Waste cans. Approved metal waste cans equipped with self-closing lids shall be provided wherever rags or waste are impregnated with finishing material. Such rags and waste shall be deposited therein immedi­ately after being utilized. The contents of waste cans shall be properly disposed of at least once daily and at the end of each shift. 
2403.4.4 Solvent recycling. Solvent distillation equip­ment used to recycle and clean dirty solvents shall comply with Section 5705.4. 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
SECTION 2404 
SPRAY FINISHING 


2404.1 General. The application of flammable or combusti­ble liquids by means of spray apparatus in continuous or intermittent processes shall be in accordance with the require­ments of Sections 2403 and 2404.2 through 2404.9.4. 
2404.2 Location of spray-finishing operations. Spray fin­ishing operations conducted in buildings used for Group A, E, I or R occupancies shall be located in a spray room pro­tected with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and separated vertically and horizontally from other areas in accordance with the Cal­ifornia Building Code. In other occupancies, spray-finishing operations shall be conducted in a spray room, spray booth or spraying space approved for such use. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Automobile undercoating spray operations and spray-on automotive lining operations conducted in areas with approved natural or mechanical ventila­tion shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 2404 when approved and where utilizing Class IliA or IIIB combustible liquids. 

2. 	
In buildings other than Group A, E, I or R occupan­cies, approved limited spraying space in accordance with Section 2404.9. 

3. 	
Resin application areas used for manufacturing of reinforced plastics complying with Section 2409 shall not be required to be located in a spray room, spray booth or spraying space. 



2404.3 Design and construction. Design and construction of spray rooms, spray booths and spray spaces shall be in accor­dance with Sections 2404.3 through 2404.3.3.1. 
2404.3.1 Spray rooms. Spray rooms shall be constructed and designed in accordance with this section and the Cali­fornia Building Code, and shall comply with Sections 2404.4 through 2404.8. 
2404.3.1.1 Floor. Combustible floor construction in spray rooms shall be covered by approved, noncombus­tible, nonsparking material, except where combustible coverings, including but not limited to thin paper or plastic and strippable coatings, are utilized over non­combustible materials to facilitate cleaning operations in spray rooms. 
2404.3.2 Spray booths. The design and construction of spray booths shall be in accordance with Sections 2404.3.2.1 through 2404.3.2.6, Sections 2404.4 through 2404.8 and NFPA 33. 
2404.3.2.1 Construction. Spray booths shall be con­structed of approved noncombustible materials. Alumi­num shall not be used. Where walls or ceiling assemblies are constructed of sheet metal, single-skin assemblies shall be no thinner than 0.0478 inch (18 gage) (1.2 mm) and each sheet of double-skin assem­blies shall be no thinner than 0.0359 inch (20 gage) (0.9 mm). Structural sections of spray booths are allowed to 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
be sealed with latex-based or similar caulks and seal­ants. 
2404.3.2.2 Surfaces. The interior surfaces of spray booths shall be smooth; shall be constructed so as to permit the free passage of exhaust air from all parts of the interior, and to facilitate washing and cleaning; and shall be designed to confine residues within the booth. Aluminum shall not be used. 
2404.3.2.3 Floor. Combustible floor construction in spray booths shall be covered by approved, noncom­bustible, nonsparking material, except where combusti­ble coverings, including but not limited to thin paper or plastic and strippable coatings, are utilized over non­combustible materials to facilitate cleaning operations in spray booths. 
2404.3.2.4 Means of egress. Means of egress shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 10. 
Exception: Means of egress doors from premanu­factured spray booths shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) in width by 80 inches (2032 mm) in height. 

2404.3.2.5 Clear space. Spray booths shall be installed so that all parts of the booth are readily accessible for cleaning. A clear space of not less than 3 feet (914 mm) shall be maintained on all sides of the spray booth. This clear space shall be kept free of any storage or combus­tible construction. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
This requirement shall not prohibit locating a spray booth closer than 3 feet (914 mm) to or directly against an interior partition, wall or floor/ceiling assembly that has a fire-resis­tance rating of not less than 1 hour, provided the spray booth can be adequately maintained and cleaned. 

2. 	
This requirement shall not prohibit locating a spray booth closer than 3 feet (914 mm) to an exterior wall or a roof assembly, provided the wall or roof is constructed of noncombustible material and the spray booth can be ade­quately maintained and cleaned. 



2404.3.2.6 Size. The aggregate area of spray booths in a building shall not exceed the lesser of 10 percent of the area of any floor of a building or the basic area allowed for a Group H-2 occupancy without area increases, as set forth in the California Building Code. The area of an individual spray booth in a building shall not exceed the lesser of the aggregate size limit or 1,500 square feet (139m2). 
Exception: One individual booth not exceeding 500 square feet (46m2). 
2404.3.3 Spraying spaces. Spraying spaces shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the Califor­nia Building Code, and Section 2404.3.3.1 and Sections 2404.4 through 2404.8 of this code. 
2404.3.3.1 Floor. Combustible floor construction in spraying spaces shall be covered by approved, noncom­bustible, nonsparking material, except where combusti­ble coverings, such as thin paper or plastic and strippable coatings, are utilized over noncombustible materials to facilitate cleaning operations in spraying spaces. 
2404.4 Fire protection. Spray booths and spray rooms shall be protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system complying with Chapter 9. Protection shall also extend to exhaust plenums, exhaust ducts and both sides of dry filters when such filters are used. 
2404.4.1 Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers complying with Section 906 shall be provided for spraying areas in accordance with the requirements for an extra (high) hazard occupancy. 
2404.5 Housekeeping, maintenance and storage of haz­ardous materials. Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 2403.3, 2403.4, 2404.5.1 and 2404.5.2. 
2404.5.1 Different coatings. Spray booths, spray rooms and spraying spaces shall not be alternately utilized for different types of coating materials where the combination of materials is conducive to spontaneous ignition, unless all deposits of one material are removed from the booth, room or space and exhaust ducts prior to spraying with a different material. 
2404.5.2 Protection of sprinklers. Automatic sprinklers installed in flammable vapor areas shall be protected from the accumulation of residue from spraying operations in an approved manner. Bags used as a protective covering shall be 0.003-inch-thick (0.076 mm) polyethylene or cello­phane or shall be thin paper. Automatic sprinklers contam­inated by overspray particles shall be replaced with new automatic sprinklers. 
2404.6 Sources of ignition. Control of sources of ignition 
shall be in accordance with Section 2403.2 and Sections 
2404.6.1 through 2404.6.2.4. 
2404.6.1 Drying operations. Spray booths and spray rooms shall not be alternately used for the purpose of dry­ing by arrangements or methods that could cause an increase in the surface temperature of the spray booth or spray room except in accordance with Sections 2404.6.1.1 and 2404.6.1.2. Except as specifically provided in this sec­tion, drying or baking units utilizing a heating system hav­ing open flames or that are capable of producing sparks shall not be installed in a flammable vapor areas. 
2404.6.1.1 Spraying procedure. The spraying proce­dure shall use low-volume spray application. 
2404.6.1.2 Drying apparatus. Fixed drying apparatus shall comply with this chapter and the applicable provi­sions of Chapter 30. When recirculation ventilation is provided in accordance with Section 2404.7.2, the heat­ing system shall not be within the recirculation air path. 
2404.6.1.2.1 Interlocks. The spraying apparatus, drying apparatus and ventilating system for the spray booth or spray room shall be equipped with interlocks arranged to: 
1. 	
Prevent operation of the spraying apparatus while drying operations are in progress. 

2. 	
Purge spray vapors from the spray booth or spray room for a period of not less than 3 min­utes before the drying apparatus is rendered operable. 

3. 	
Have the ventilating system maintain a safe atmosphere within the spray booth or spray room during the drying process and automati­cally shut off drying apparatus in the event of a failure of the ventilating system. 

4. 	
Shut off the drying apparatus automatically if the air temperature within the booth exceeds 200°F (93°C). 


2404.6.1.2.2 Portable infrared apparatus. When a portable infrared drying apparatus is used, electrical wiring and portable infrared drying equipment shall comply with California Electrical Code. Electrical equipment located within 18 inches (457 mm) of floor level shall be approved for Class I, Division 2 hazardous locations. Metallic parts of drying appara­tus shall be electrically bonded and grounded. Dur­ing spraying operations, portable drying apparatus and electrical connections and wiring thereto shall not be located within spray booths, spray rooms or other areas where spray residue would be deposited thereon. 
2404.6.2 Illumination. Where spraying spaces, spray rooms or spray booths are illuminated through glass panels or other transparent materials, only fixed luminaires shall be utilized as a source of illumination. 
2404.6.2.1 Glass panels. Panels for luminaires or for observation shall be of heat-treated glass, wired glass or hammered wire glass and shall be sealed to confine vapors, mists, residues, dusts and deposits to the flam­mable vapor area. Panels for luminaires shall be sepa­rated from the luminaire to prevent the surface temperature of the panel from exceeding 200°F (93°C). 
2404.6.2.2 Exterior luminaires. Luminaires attached to the walls or ceilings of a flammable vapor area, but outside of any classified area and separated from the flammable vapor areas by vapor-tight glass panels, shall be suitable for use in ordinary hazard locations. Such luminaires shall be serviced from outside the flammable vapor areas. 
2404.6.2.3 Integral luminaires. Luminaires that are an integral part of the walls or ceiling of a flammable vapor area are allowed to be separated from the flam­mable vapor area by glass panels that are an integral part of the luminaire. Such luminaires shall be listed for use in Class I, Division 2 or Class II, Division 2 loca­tions, whichever is applicable, and also shall be suitable for accumulations of deposits of combustible residues. Such luminaires are allowed to be serviced from inside the flammable vapor area. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
2404.6.2.4 Portable electric lamps. Portable electric lamps shall not be used in flammable vapor areas dur­ing spraying operations. Portable electric lamps used during cleaning or repairing operations shall be of a type approved for hazardous locations. 

2404.7 Ventilation. Mechanical ventilation of flammable vapor areas shall be provided in accordance with Section 
502.7 of the California Mechanical Code. 
2404.7.1 Operation. Mechanical ventilation shall be kept in operation at all times while spraying operations are being conducted and for a sufficient time thereafter to allow vapors from drying coated articles and finishing material residue to be exhausted. Spraying equipment shall be interlocked with the ventilation of the flammable vapor areas such that spraying operations cannot be con­ducted unless the ventilation system is in operation. 
2404.7.2 Recirculation. Air exhausted from spraying operations shall not be recirculated. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Air exhausted from spraying operations is allowed to be recirculated as makeup air for unmanned spray operations, provided that: 
1.1. The solid particulate has been removed. 
1.2. The vapor concentration is less than 25 percent of the LFL. 
1.3. Approved equipment 	is used to monitor the vapor concentration. 
1.4. When the vapor concentration exceeds 25 percent of the LFL, the following shall occur: 
a. 	
An alarm shall sound; and 

b. 	
Spray operations shall automatically shut down. 


1.5. 
In the event of shutdown 	of the vapor concentration monitor, 100 percent of the air volume specified in the California Mechanical Code IS automatically < exhausted. 

2. 	
Air exhausted from spraying operations is allowed to be recirculated as makeup air to manned spraying operations where all of the con­ditions provided in Exception 1 are included in the installation and documents have been pre­pared to show that the installation does not pose a life safety hazard to personnel inside the spray booth, spraying space or spray room. 


2404.7.3 Air velocity. Ventilation systems shall be designed, installed and maintained such that the average air velocity over the open face of the booth, or booth cross section in the direction of airflow during spraying opera­tions, shall not be less than 100 feet per minute (0.51 m/s). 
2404.7.4 Ventilation obstruction. Articles being sprayed shall be positioned in a manner that does not obstmct col­lection of overspray. 

2404.7.5 Independent ducts. Each spray booth and spray room shall have an independent exhaust duct system dis­charging to the outside. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Multiple spray booths having a combined frontal area of 18 square feet (1.67 m2) or less are allowed to have a common exhaust when identi­cal spray finishing material is used in each booth. Ifmore than one fan serves one booth, fans shall be interconnected such that all fans will operate simultaneously. 

2. 	
Where treatment of exhaust is necessary for air pollution control or for energy conservation, ducts shall be allowed to be manifolded if all of the following conditions are met: 


2.1. The sprayed materials used are compati­ble and will not react or cause ignition of the residue in the ducts. 
2.2. Nitrocellulose-based 	finishing material shall not be used. 
2.3. A filtering system shall be provided 	to reduce the amount of overspray carried into the duct manifold. 
2.4. Automatic 	sprinkler protection shall be provided at the junction of each booth exhaust with the manifold, in addition to the protection required by this chapter. 

2404.7.6 Termination point. The termination point for exhaust ducts discharging to the atmosphere shall not be less than the following distances: 
1. 	
Ducts conveying explosive or flammable vapors, fumes or dusts: 30 feet (9144 mm) from the lot line; 10 feet (3048 mm) from openings into the building; 6 feet (1829 mm) from exterior walls and roofs; 30 feet (9144 mm) from combustible walls or openings into the building that are in the direction of the exhaust discharge; 10 feet (3048 mm) above adjoin­ing grade. 

2. 	
Other product-conveying outlets: 10 feet (3048 mm) from the lot line; 3 feet (914 mm) from exterior walls and roofs; 10 feet (3048 mm) from openings into the building; 10 feet (3048 mm) above adjoin­ing grade. 


2404.7.7 Fan motors and belts. Electric motors driving exhaust fans shall not be placed inside booths or ducts. Fan rotating elements shall be nonferrous or nonsparking or the casing shall consist of, or be lined with, such mate­rial. Belts shall not enter the duct or booth unless the belt and pulley within the duct are tightly enclosed. 
2404.7.8 Filters. Air intake filters that are part of a wall or ceiling assembly shall be listed as Class I or II in accor­dance with UL 900. Exhaust filters shall be required. 
2404.7.8.1 Supports. Supports and holders for filters 
shall be constructed of noncombustible materials. 
2404.7.8.2 Attachment. Overspray collection filters shall be readily removable and accessible for cleaning or replacement. 
2404.7.8.3 Maintaining air velocity. Visible gauges, audible alarms or pressure-activated devices shall be installed to indicate or ensure that the required air velocity is maintained. 
2404.7.8.4 Filter rolls. Spray booths equipped with a filter roll that is automatically advanced when the air velocity is reduced to less than 100 feet per minute 
(0.51 m/s) shall be arranged to shut down the spraying operation if the filter roll fails to advance automatically. 
2404.7.8.5 Filter disposal. Discarded filter pads shall be immediately removed to a safe, detached location or placed in a noncombustible container with a tight-fit­ting lid and disposed of properly. 
2404.7.8.6 Spontaneous ignition. Spray booths using dry filters shall not be used for spraying materials that are highly susceptible to spontaneous heating and igni­tion. Filters shall be changed prior to spraying materials that could react with other materials previously col­lected. An example of a potentially reactive combina­tion includes lacquer when combined with varnishes, stains or primers. 
2404.7.8.7 Waterwash spray booths. Waterwash spray booths shall be of an approved design so as to prevent excessive accumulation of deposits in ducts and residue at duct outlets. Such booths shall be arranged so that air and overspray are drawn through a continuously flowing water curtain before entering an exhaust duct to the building exterior. 
2404.8 Interlocks. Interlocks for spray application finishes 
shall be in accordance with Sections 2404.8.1 through 
2404.8.2. 
2404.8.1 Automated spray application operations. 
Where protecting automated spray application operations, automatic fire-extinguishing systems shall be equipped with an approved interlock feature that will, upon dis­charge of the system, automatically stop the spraying operations and workpiece conveyors into and out of the flammable vapor areas. Where the building is equipped with a fire alarm system, discharge of the automatic fire­extinguishing system shall also activate the building alarm notification appliances. 
2404.8.1.1 Alarm station. A manual fire alarm and emergency system shutdown station shall be installed to serve each flammable vapor area. When activated, the station shall accomplish the functions indicated in Section 2404.8.1. 
2404.8.1.2 Alarm station location. At least one man­ual fire alarm and emergency system shutdown station shall be readily accessible to operating personnel. Where access to this station is likely to involve expo­sure to danger, an additional station shall be located adjacent to an exit from the area. 
2404.8.2 Ventilation interlock prohibited. Air makeup and flammable vapor area exhaust systems shall not be interlocked with the fire alarm system and shall remain in operation during a fire alarm condition. 
Exception: Where the type of fire-extinguishing sys­tem used requires such ventilation to be discontinued, air makeup and exhaust systems shall shut down and dampers shall close. 

2404.9 Limited spraying spaces. Limited spraying spaces shall comply with Sections 2404.9.1 through 2404.9.4. 
2404.9.1 Job size. The aggregate surface area to be sprayed shall not exceed 9 square feet (0.84 m2). 
2404.9.2 Frequency. Spraying operations shall not be of a continuous nature. 
2404.9.3 Ventilation. Positive mechanical ventilation pro­viding a minimum of six complete air changes per hour shall be installed. Such system shall meet the requirements of this code for handling flammable vapor areas. Explo­sion venting is not required. 
2404.9.4 Electrical wiring. Electrical wiring within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the floor and 20 feet (6096 mm) hori­zontally of the limited spraying space shall be designed for Class I, Division 2 locations in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
SECTION 2405 
DIPPING OPERATIONS 


2405.1 General. Dip-tank operations shall comply with the requirements of Section 2403 and Sections 2405.2 through 2405.11. 
2405.2 Location of dip-tank operations. Dip-tank opera­tions conducted in buildings used for Group A, I or R occu­pancies shall be located in a room designed for that purpose, equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system and separated vertically and horizontally from other areas in accordance with the California Building Code. 
2405.3 Construction of dip tanks. Dip tanks shall be con­structed in accordance with Sections 2405.3.1 through 2405.3.4.3 and NFPA 34. Dip tanks, including drain boards, shall be constructed of noncombustible material and their supports shall be of heavy metal, reinforced concrete or masonry. 
2405.3.1 Overflow. Dip tanks greater than 150 gallons (568 L) in capacity or 10 square feet (0.93 m2) in liquid surface area shall be equipped with a trapped overflow pipe leading to an approved location outside the building. The bottom of the overflow connection shall not be less than 6 inches (152 mm) below the top of the tank. 
2405.3.2 Bottom drains. Dip tanks greater than 500 gal­lons (1893 L) in liquid capacity shall be equipped with bottom drains that are arranged to automatically and man­ually drain the tank quickly in the event of a fire unless the viscosity of the liquid at normal atmospheric temperature makes this impractical. Manual operation shall be from a safe, accessible location. Where gravity flow is not practi­cable, automatic pumps shall be provided. Such drains 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES 

shall be trapped and discharged to a closed, vented salvage tank or to an approved outside location. 
Exception: Dip tanks containing Class IIIB combusti­ble liquids where the liquids are not heated above room temperature and the process area is protected by auto­matic sprinklers. 

2405.3.3 Dipping liquid temperature control. Protection against the accumulation of vapors, self-ignition and excessively high temperatures shall be provided for dip­ping liquids that are heated directly or heated by the sur­faces of the object being dipped. 
2405.3.4 Dip-tank covers. Dip-tank covers allowed by Section 2405.4.1 shall be capable of manual operation and shall be automatic closing by approved automatic-closing devices designed to operate in the event of a fire. 
2405.3.4.1 Construction. Covers shall be constructed of noncombustible material or be of a tin-clad type with enclosing metal applied with locked joints. 
2405.3.4.2 Supports. Chain or wire rope shall be uti­lized for cover supports or operating mechanisms. 
2405.3.4.3 Closed covers. Covers shall be kept closed when tanks are not in use. 

2405.4 Fire protection. Dip-tank operations shall be pro­tected in accordance with Sections 2405.4.1 through 2405.4.2. 
2405.4.1 Fixed fire-extinguishing equipment. An approved automatic fire-extinguishing system or dip-tank cover in accordance with Section 2405.3.4 shall be pro­vided for the following dip tanks: 
1. 	
Dip tanks less than 150 gallons (568 L) in capacity or 10 square feet (0.93 m2) in liquid surface area. 

2. 	
Dip tanks containing a liquid with a flash point below l10°F (43°C) used in such manner that the liquid temperature could equal or be greater than its flash point from artificial or natural causes, and hav­ing both a capacity of more than 10 gallons (37.9 L) and a liquid surface area of more than 4 square feet 


(0.37 m2). 
2405.4.1.1 Fire-extinguishing system. An approved automatic fire-extinguishing system shall be provided for dip tanks with a 150-gallon (568 L) or more capac­ity or 10 square feet (0.93 m2) or larger in a liquid sur­face area. Fire-extinguishing system design shall be in accordance with NFP A 34. 

2405.4.2 Portable fire extinguishers. Areas in the vicin­ity of dip tanks shall be provided with portable fire extin­guishers complying with Section 906 and suitable for flammable and combustible liquid fires as specified for extra (high) hazard occupancies. 
2405.5 Housekeeping, maintenance and storage of haz­ardous materials. Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 2403.3 and 2403.4. 
2405.6 Sources of ignition. Control of sources of ignition shall be in accordance with Section 2403.2. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
2405.7 Ventilation of flammable vapor areas. Flammable vapor areas shall be provided with mechanical ventilation adequate to prevent the dangerous accumulation of vapors. Required ventilation systems shall be arranged such that the failure of any ventilating fan shall automatically stop the dip­ping conveyor system. 
2405.8 Conveyor interlock. Dip tanks utilizing a conveyor system shall be arranged such that in the event of a fire, the conveyor system shall automatically cease motion and the required tank bottom drains shall open. 
2405.9 Hardening and tempering tanks. Hardening and tempering tanks shall comply with Sections 2405.3 through 2405.3.3, 2405.4.2 and 2405.8, but shall be exempt from other provisions of Section 2405. 
2405.9.1 Location. Tanks shall be located as far as practi­cal from furnaces and shall not be located on or near com­bustible floors. 
2405.9.2 Hoods. Tanks shall be provided with a noncom­bustible hood and vent or other approved venting means, terminating outside of the structure to serve as a vent in case of a fire. Such vent ducts shall be treated as flues and proper clearances shall be maintained from combustible materials. 
2405.9.3 Alarms. Tanks shall be equipped with a high­temperature limit switch arranged to sound an alarm when the temperature of the quenching medium reaches 50°F (1 0°C) below the flash point. 
2405.9.4 Fire protection. Hardening and tempering tanks greater than 500 gallons (1893 L) in capacity or 25 square feet (2.3 m2) in liquid surface area shall be protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system complying with Chapter 9. 
2405.9.5 Use of air pressure. Air under pressure shall not be used to fill or agitate oil in tanks. 
2405.10 Flow-coating operations. Flow-coating operations shall comply with the requirements for dip tanks. The area of the sump and any areas on which paint flows shall be consid­ered to be the area of a dip tank. 
2405.10.1 Paint supply. Paint shall be supplied by a grav­ity tank not exceeding 10 gallons (38 L) in capacity or by direct low-pressure pumps arranged to shut down automat­ically in case of a fire by means of approved heat-actuated devices. 
2405.11 Roll-coating operations. Roll-coating operations shall comply with Section 2405.10. In roll-coating operations utilizing flammable or combustible liquids, sparks from static electricity shall be prevented by electrically bonding and grounding all metallic rotating and other parts of machinery and equipment and by the installation of static collectors, or by maintaining a conductive atmosphere such as a high rela­tive humidity. 
SECTION 2406 
POWDER COATING 


2406.1 General. Operations using finely ground particles of protective finishing material applied in dry powder form by a fluidized bed, an electrostatic fluidized bed, powder spray guns or electrostatic powder spray guns shall comply with Sections 2406.2 through 2406.7. In addition, Section 2407 shall apply to fixed electrostatic equipment used in powder coating operations. 
2406.2 Location. Powder coating operations shall be con­ducted in enclosed powder coating rooms, enclosed powder coating facilities which are ventilated or ventilated spray booths. 
2406.3 Construction of powder coating rooms and booths. Powder coating rooms shall be constructed of noncombusti­ble materials. Spray booths shall be constructed in accor­dance with Section 2404.3.2. 
Exception: Listed spray-booth assemblies that are con­structed of other materials shall be allowed. 
2406.4 Fire protection. Areas used for powder coating shall be protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system complying with Chapter 9. 
2406.4.1 Additional protection for fixed systems. Auto­mated powder application equipment shall be protected by the installation of an approved, supervised flame detection apparatus that shall react to the presence of flame within 
0.5 
second and shall accomplish all of the following: 

1. 	
Shutting down of energy supplies (electrical and compressed air) to conveyor, ventilation, applica­tion, transfer and powder collection equipment. 

2. 	
Closing of segregation dampers in associated duct­work to interrupt airflow from application equip­ment to powder collectors. 

3. 	
Activation of an alarm that is audible throughout the powder coating room or booth. 


2406.4.2 Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers complying with Section 906 shall be provided for areas used for powder coating in accordance with the require­ments for an extra-hazard occupancy. 
2406.5 Operation and maintenance. Powder coating areas shall be kept free from the accumulation of powder coating dusts, including horizontal surfaces such as ledges, beams, pipes, hoods, booths and floors. 
2406.5.1 Cleaning. Surfaces shall be cleaned in such a manner so as to avoid scattering dusts to other places or creating dust clouds. Vacuum sweeping equipment shall be of a type approved for use in hazardous locations. 
2406.6 Sources of ignition. Control of sources of ignition shall be in accordance with Section 2403.2 and Sections 2406.6.1 through 2406.6.4. 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES 
2406.6.1 Drying, curing and fusion equipment. Drying, curing and fusion equipment shall comply with Chapter 
30. 
2406.6.2 Spark-producing metals. Iron or spark-produc­ing metals shall be prevented from being introduced into the powders being applied by magnetic separators, filter­type separators or by other approved means. 
2406.6.3 Preheated parts. When parts are heated prior to coating, the temperature of the parts shall not exceed the ignition temperature of the powder to be used. 
2406.6.4 Grounding and bonding. Precautions shall be taken to minimize the possibility of ignition by static elec­trical sparks through static bonding and grounding, where possible, of powder transport, application and recovery equipment. 

2406.7 Ventilation. Exhaust ventilation shall be sufficient to maintain the atmosphere below one-half the minimum explo­sive concentration for the material being applied. Nondepos­ited, air-suspended powders shall be removed through exhaust ducts to the powder recovery system. 
SECTION 2407 
ELECTROSTATIC APPARATUS 


2407.1 General. Electrostatic apparatus and devices used in connection with paint-spraying and paint-detearing opera­tions shall be of an approved type. 
2407.2 Location and clear space. A space of at least twice the sparking distance shall be maintained between goods being painted or deteared and electrodes, electrostatic atomiz­ing heads or conductors. The equipment manufacturer's oper­ating instructions shall be consulted to determine the sparking distance of the equipment involved. A sign stating the sparking distance shall be conspicuously posted near the assembly. 
Exception: Portable electrostatic paint-spraying apparatus listed for use in Class I, Division 1, locations. 

2407.3 Construction of equipment. Electrodes and electro­static atomizing heads shall be of approved construction, rig­idly supported in permanent locations and effectively insulated from ground. Insulators shall be nonporous and noncombustible. 
Exception: Portable electrostatic paint-spraying apparatus listed for use in Class I, Division 1, locations. 
2407.3.1 Barriers. Booths, fencing, railings or guards shall be placed about the equipment such that either by their location or character, or both, isolation of the process is maintained from plant storage and personnel. Railings, fencing and guards shall be of conductive material, ade­quately grounded, and at least 5 feet (1524 mm) from pro­cessing equipment. 
Exception: Portable electrostatic paint-spraying appa­ratus listed for use in Class I, Division 1, locations. 

2407.4 Fire protection. Areas used for electrostatic spray finishing with fixed equipment shall be protected with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system complying with Chapter 9 and Section 2407.4.1. 
2407.4.1 Protection for automated liquid electrostatic spray application equipment. Automated liquid electro­static spray application equipment shall be protected by the installation of an approved, supervised flame detection apparatus that shall, in the event of ignition, react to the presence of flame within 0.5 second and shall accomplish all of the following: 
1. 	
Activation of a local alarm in the vicinity of the spraying operation and activation of the building alarm system, if such a system is provided. 

2. 	
Shutting down of the coating material delivery sys­tem. 

3. 	
Termination of all spray application operations. 

4. 	
Stopping of conveyors into and out of the flammable vapor areas. 

5. 	
Disconnection of power to the high-voltage ele­ments in the flammable vapor areas and disconnec­tion of power to the system. 



2407.5 Housekeeping, maintenance and storage of haz­ardous materials. Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 2403.3, 2403.4 and Sections 2407.5.1 and 2407.5.2. 
2407.5.1 Maintenance. Insulators shall be kept clean and dry. Drip plates and screens subject to paint deposits shall be removable and taken to a safe place for cleaning. Grounds and bonding means for the paint-spraying appa­ratus and all associated equipment shall be periodically cleaned and maintained free of overspray. 
2407.5.2 Signs. Signs shall be posted to provide the fol­lowing information: 
1. 	
Designate the process zone as dangerous with respect to fire and accident. 

2. 	
Identify the grounding requirements for all electri­cally conductive objects in the flammable vapor area, including persons. 

3. 	
Restrict access to qualified personnel only. 



2407.6 Sources of ignition. Transformers, power packs, con­trol apparatus and all other electrical portions of the equip­ment, except high-voltage grids and electrostatic atomizing heads and connections, shall be located outside of the flam­mable vapor areas or shall comply with Section 2403.2. 
2407.7 Ventilation. The flammable vapor area shall be venti­lated in accordance with Section 2404.7. 
2407.8 Emergency shutdown. Electrostatic apparatus shall be equipped with automatic controls operating without time delay to disconnect the power supply to the high-voltage transformer and signal the operator under any of the follow­ing conditions: 
1. 	
Stoppage of ventilating fans or failure of ventilating equipment from any cause. 

2. 	
Stoppage of the conveyor carrying articles past the high-voltage grid. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3. 	
Occurrence of a ground or an imminent ground at any point of the high-voltage system. 

4. 	
Reduction of clearance below that required in Section 2407.2. 


2407.9 Ventilation interlock. Hand electrostatic equipment shall be interlocked with the ventilation system for the spray­ing area so that the equipment cannot be operated unless the ventilating system is in operation. 
SECTION 2408 
ORGANIC PEROXIDES AND 
DUAL-COMPONENT COATINGS 


2408.1 General. Spraying operations involving the use of organic peroxides and other dual-component coatings shall be in accordance with the requirements of Section 2403 and Sections 2408.2 through 2408.5. 
2408.2 Use of organic peroxide coatings. Spraying opera­tions involving the use of organic peroxides and other dual­component coatings shall be conducted in approved sprin­klered spray booths complying with Section 2404.3.2. 
2408.3 Equipment. Spray guns and related handling equip­ment used with organic peroxides shall be of a type manufac­tured for such use. 
2408.3.1 Pressure tanks. Separate pressure vessels and inserts specifically for the application shall be used for the resin and for the organic peroxide, and shall not be inter­changed. Organic peroxide pressure tank inserts shall be constructed of stainless steel or polyethylene. 
2408.4 Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials. Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sections 2403.3 and 2403.4 and Sections 2408.4.1 through 2408.4.7. 
2408.4.1 Contamination prevention. Organic peroxide initiators shall not be contaminated with foreign sub­stances. 
2408.4.2 Spilled material. Spilled organic peroxides shall be promptly removed so there are no residues. Spilled material absorbed by using a noncombustible absorbent shall be promptly disposed of in accordance with the man­ufacturer's recommendation. 
2408.4.3 Residue control. Materials shall not be contami­nated by dusts and overspray residues resulting from the sanding or spraying of finishing materials containing organic peroxides. 
2408.4.4 Handling. Handling of organic peroxides shall be conducted in a manner that avoids shock and friction that produces decomposition and violent reaction hazards. 
2408.4.5 Mixing. Organic peroxides shall not be mixed directly with accelerators or promoters. 
2408.4.6 Personnel qualifications. Personnel working with organic peroxides and dual-component coatings shall be specifically trained to work with these materials. 
2408.4.7 Storage. The storage of organic peroxides shall comply with Chapter 39. 
2408.5 Sources of ignition. Only nonsparking tools shall be used in areas where organic peroxides are stored, mixed or applied. 
SECTION 2409 
INDOOR MANUFACTURING 
OF REINFORCED PLASTICS 


2409.1 General. Indoor manufacturing processes involving spray or hand application of reinforced plastics and using more than 5 gallons (19 L) of resin in a 24-hour period shall be in accordance with Sections 2409.2 through 2409.6.1. 
2409.2 Resin application equipment. Equipment used for spray application of resin shall be installed and used in accor­dance with Section 2408 and Sections 2409.3 through 2409.6.1. 
2409.3 Fire protection. Resin application areas shall be pro­tected by an automatic sprinkler system. The sprinkler system design shall not be less than that required for Ordinary Haz­ard, Group 2, with a minimum design area of 3,000 square feet (279 m2). Where the materials or storage arrangements are required by other regulations to be provided with a higher level of sprinkler system protection, the higher level of sprin­kler system protection shall be provided. 
2409.4 Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials. Housekeeping, maintenance, storage and use of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sections 2403.3 and 2403.4 and Sections 2409.4.1 through 2409.4.3. 
2409.4.1 Handling of excess catalyzed resin. A noncom­bustible, open-top container shall be provided for disposal of excess catalyzed resin. Excess catalyzed resin shall be drained into the container while still in the liquid state. Enough water shall be provided in the container to main­tain a minimum 2-inch (51 mm) water layer over the con­tained resin. 
2409.4.2 Control of overchop. In areas where chopper guns are used, exposed wall and floor surfaces shall be covered with paper, polyethylene film or other approved material to allow for removal of overchop. Overchop shall be allowed to cure for not less than 4 hours prior to removal. 
2409.4.2.1 Disposal. Following removal, used wall and floor covering materials required by Section 2409.4.2 shall be placed in a noncombustible container and removed from the facility. 
2409.4.3 Storage and use of hazardous materials. Stor­age and use of organic peroxides shall be in accordance with Section 2408 and Chapter 62. Storage and use of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Chapter 57. Storage and use of unstable (reactive) materials shall be in accordance with Chapter 66. 
2409.5 Sources of ignition in resin application areas. Sources of ignition in resin application areas shall comply with Section 2403.2. 
FLAMMABLE FINISHES 

2409.6 Ventilation. Mechanical ventilation shall be provided throughout resin application areas in accordance with Section 2404.7. The ventilation rate shall be adequate to maintain the concentration of flammable vapors in the resin application area at or below 25 percent of the LFL. 
Exception: Mechanical ventilation is not required for buildings that have 75 percent of the perimeter unen­closed. 
2409.6.1 Local ventilation. Local ventilation shall be pro­vided inside of workpieces where personnel will be under or inside of the workpiece. 

SECTION 2410 FLOOR SURFACING AND FINISHING OPERATIONS 
2410.1 Scope. Floor surfacing and finishing operations exceeding 350 square feet (33 m2) and using Class I or II liq­uids shall comply with Sections 2410.2 through 2410.5. 
2410.2 Mechanical system operation. Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems shall not be operated during resurfacing or refinishing operations or within 4 hours of the application of flammable or combustible liquids. 
2410.3 Business operation. Floor surfacing and finishing operations shall not be conducted while an establishment is open to the public. 
2410.4 Ignition sources. The power shall be shut down to all electrical sources of ignition within the flammable vapor area, unless those devices are classified for use in Class I, Division 1 hazardous locations. 
2410.5 Ventilation. To prevent the accumulation of flamma­ble vapors, mechanical ventilation at a minimum rate of 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot [0.00508 m3 /(s • m2)] of area being finished shall be provided. Such exhaust shall be by approved temporary or portable means. Vapors shall be exhausted to the exterior of the building. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 25 -FRUIT AND CROP RIPENING 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Not Adopted By The State Fire Marshal 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

... 
..

* The Califomza Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, D!Vls!On I proviSions that are found Ill the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 25 
FRUIT AND CROP RIPENING 
SECTION 2501 
GENERAL 


2501.1 Scope. Ripening processes where ethylene gas is introduced into a room to promote the ripening of fruits, veg­etables and other crops shall comply with this chapter. 
Exception: Mixtures of ethylene and one or more inert gases in concentrations which prevent the gas from reach­ing greater than 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) when released to the atmosphere. 
2501.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
2501.3 Ethylene generators. Approved ethylene generators shall be operated and maintained in accordance with Section 2506. 
SECTION 2502 
DEFINITIONS 


2502.1 Terms defined in Chapter 2. Words and terms used in this chapter and defined in Chapter 2 shall have the mean­ings ascribed to them as defined therein. 
SECTION 2503 
ETHYLENE GAS 


2503.1 Location. Ethylene gas shall be discharged only into approved rooms or enclosures designed and constructed for this purpose. 
2503.2 Dispensing. Valves controlling discharge of ethylene shall provide positive and fail-closed control of flow and shall be set to limit the concentration of gas in air below 1,000 parts per million (ppm). 
SECTION 2504 
SOURCES OF IGNITION 


2504.1 Ignition prevention. Sources of ignition shall be con­trolled or protected in accordance with this section and Chap­ter 3. 
2504.2 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equipment, including luminaires, shall be approved for use in Class I, Division 2, Group C hazardous (classified) locations. 
2504.3 Static electricity. Containers, piping and equipment used to dispense ethylene shall be bonded and grounded to prevent the discharge of static sparks or arcs. 
2504.4 Lighting. Lighting shall be by approved electric lamps or luminaires only. 
2504.5 Heating. Heating shall be by indirect means utilizing low-pressure steam, hot water or warm air. 
Exception: Electric or fuel-fired heaters approved for use in hazardous (classified) locations which are installed and operated in accordance with the applicable provisions of the California Electrical Code and the California Mechan­ical Code. 
SECTION 2505 
COMBUSTIBLE WASTE 


2505.1 Housekeeping. Empty boxes, cartons, pallets and other combustible waste shall be removed from ripening rooms or enclosures and disposed of at regular intervals in accordance with Chapter 3. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 2506 
ETHYLENE GENERATORS 


2506.1 Ethylene generators. Ethylene generators shall be listed and labeled by an approved testing laboratory, approved by the fire code official and used only in approved rooms in accordance with the ethylene generator manufac­turer's instructions. The listing evaluation shall include docu­mentation that the concentration of ethylene gas does not exceed 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL). 
2506.2 Ethylene generator rooms. Ethylene generators shall be used in rooms having a volume of not less than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3). Rooms shall have air circulation to ensure even distribution of ethylene gas and shall be free from sparks, open flames or other ignition sources. 
SECTION 2507 
WARNING SIGNS 


2507.1 When required. Approved warning signs indicating the danger involved and necessary precautions shall be posted on all doors and entrances to the premises. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 26-FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Not Adopted By The State Fire Marshal 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califomza Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn I proVISIOns that are found Ill the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 26 
FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING 
SECTION 2601 
GENERAL 


2601.1 Scope. Fumigation and insecticidal fogging opera­tions within buildings, structures and spaces shall comply with this chapter. 
2601.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 2602 
DEFINITIONS 


2602.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
FUMIGANT. 
FUMIGATION. 
INSECTICIDAL FOGGING. 
SECTION 2603 
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 


2603.1 General. Buildings, structures and spaces in which fumigation and insecticidal fogging operations are conducted shall comply with the fire protection and safety requirements of Sections 2603.2 through 2603.7. 
2603.2 Sources of ignition. Fires, open flames and similar sources of ignition shall be eliminated from the space under fumigation or insecticidal fogging. Heating, where needed, shall be of an approved type. 
2603.2.1 Electricity. Electricity in any part of the build­ing, structure or space where operation of switches or elec­trical devices, equipment or systems could serve as a source of ignition shall be shut off. 
Exception: Circulating fans that have been specifically designed for utilization in hazardous atmospheres and installed in accordance with NFPA 70. 
2603.2.2 Electronic devices. Electronic devices, includ­ing portable equipment and cellular phones, shall be shut off. Telephone lines shall be disconnected from tele­phones. 
2603.2.3 Duration. Sources of ignition shall be shut off during the fumigation activity and remain shut off until the ventilation required in Section 2603.6 is completed. 

2603.3 Notification. The fire code official and fire chief shall be notified in writing at least 48 hours before the build­ing, structure or space is to be closed in connection with the utilization of any toxic or flammable fumigant. Notification shall give the location of the enclosed space to be fumigated or fogged, the occupancy, the fumigants or insecticides to be utilized, the person or persons responsible for the operation, and the date and time at which the operation will begin. Writ­ten notice of any fumigation or insecticidal fogging operation shall be given to all affected occupants of the building, struc­ture or space in which such operations are to be conducted with sufficient advance notice to allow the occupants to evac­uate the building, structure or space. Such notice shall inform the occupants as to the purposes, anticipated duration and hazards associated with the fumigation or insecticidal fog­ging operation. 
2603.3.1 Warning signs. Approved warning signs indi­cating the danger, type of chemical involved and neces­sary precautions shall be posted on all doors and entrances to the affected building, structure or space and upon all 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
gangplanks and ladders from the deck, pier or land to a ship. Such notices shall be printed in red ink on a white background. Letters in the headlines shall be at least 2 inches (51 mm) in height and shall state the date and time of the operation, the name and address of the person, the name of the operator in charge, and a warning stating that the affected building, structure or space shall be vacated at least 1 hour before the operation begins and shall not be reentered until the danger signs have been removed by the proper authorities. 
2603.3.2 Breathing apparatus. Persons engaged in the business of fumigation or insecticidal fogging shall main­tain and have available approved protective breathing apparatus. 
2603.3.3 Watch personnel. During the period fumigation is in progress, except when fumigation is conducted in a gas-tight vault or tank, a responsible watchperson shall remain on duty at the entrance or entrances to the enclosed fumigated space until after the fumigation is completed and the building, structure or space is properly ventilated and safe for occupancy. Sufficient watchers shall be pro­vided to prevent persons from entering the enclosed space under fumigation without being observed. 
2603.3.4 Evacuation during fumigation. Occupants of the building, structure or space to be fumigated, except the personnel conducting the fumigation, shall be evacuated from such building, structure or space prior to commenc­ing fumigation operations. 
2603.3.5 Evacuation during insecticidal fogging opera­tions. Occupants in the building, structure or space to be fogged, except the personnel conducting the insecticidal fogging operations, shall be evacuated from such building, structure or space prior to commencing fogging opera­tions. 
2603.4 Insecticidal fogging liquids. Insecticidal fogging liquids with a flash point below 100°F (38°C) shall not be uti­lized. 
2603.5 Sealing of buildings, structures and spaces. Paper and other similar materials that do not meet the flame propa­gation performance criteria ofNFPA 701 shall not be used to wrap or cover a building, structure or space in excess of that required for the sealing of cracks, casements and similar openings. 
2603.5.1 Maintenance of openings. All openings to the building, structure or space to be fumigated or fogged shall be kept securely closed during such operation. 
2603.6 Venting and cleanup. At the end of the exposure period, fumigators shall safely and properly ventilate the premises and contents; properly dispose of fumigant contain­ers, residues, debris and other materials used for such fumiga­tion; and clear obstructions from gas-fired appliance vents. 
2603.7 Flammable fumigants restricted. The use of carbon disulfide and hydrogen cyanide shall be restricted to agricul­tural fumigation. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 27-SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 X  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

... 
. . 

* The California Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Calzforma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the cun·ent CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 27 
SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES 
SECTION 2701 
GENERAL 


2701.1 Scope. Semiconductor fabrication facilities and com­parable research and development areas classified as Group H-5 shall comply with this chapter and the California Build­ing Code. The use, storage and handling of hazardous materi­als in Group H-5 shall comply with this chapter, other applicable provisions of this code and the California Building Code. 
2701.2 Application. The requirements set forth in this chap­ter are requirements specific only to Group H-5 and shall be applied as exceptions or additions to applicable requirements set forth elsewhere in this code. 
2701.3 Multiple hazards. Where a material poses multiple hazards, all hazards shall be addressed in accordance with Section 5001.1. 
2701.4 Existing buildings and existing fabrication areas. Existing buildings and existing fabrication areas shall comply with this chapter, except that transportation and handling of HPM in corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps shall be allowed when in compliance with Section 2705.3.2 and the California Building Code. 
2701.5 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 2702 
DEFINITIONS 


2702.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
CONTINUOUS GAS DETECTION SYSTEM. 
EMERGENCY CONTROL STATION. 
FABRICATION AREA. 
HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIAL (HPM). 
HPM FLAMMABLE LIQUID. 
HPMROOM. 
PASS-THROUGH. 
SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITY. 
SERVICE CORRIDOR. 
TOOL. 
WORKSTATION. 
SECTION 2703 
GENERAL SAFETY PROVISIONS 


2703.1 Emergency control station. An emergency control station shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2703.1.1 through 2703.1.3. 
2703.1.1 Location. The emergency control station shall be located on the premises at an approved location outside the fabrication area. 

2703.1.2 Staffing. Trained personnel shall continuously staff the emergency control station. 
2703.1.3 Signals. The emergency control station shall receive signals from emergency equipment and alarm and detection systems. Such emergency equipment and alarm and detection systems shall include, but not be limited to, the following where such equipment or systems are required to be provided either in this chapter or elsewhere in this code: 
1. 	Automatic sprinkler system alarm and monitoring systems. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	
Manual fire alarm systems. 

3. 	
Emergency alarm systems. 

4. 	
Continuous gas detection systems. 

5. 	
Smoke detection systems. 

6. 	
Emergency power system. 

7. 	
Automatic detection and alarm systems for pyro­phoric liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids required by Section 2705.2.3.4. 

8. 	
Exhaust ventilation flow alarm devices for pyro­phoric liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids cabinet exhaust ventilation systems required by Sec­tion 2705.2.3.4. 


2703.2 Systems, equipment and processes. Systems, equip­ment and processes shall be in accordance with Sections 2703.2.1 through 2703.2.3.2. 
2703.2.1 Application. Systems, equipment and processes shall include, but not be limited to, containers, cylinders, tanks, piping, tubing, valves and fittings. 
2703.2.2 General requirements. In addition to the requirements in Section 2703.2, systems, equipment and processes shall also comply with Section 5003.2, other applicable provisions of this code, the California Building Code and the California Mechanical Code. 
2703.2.3 Additional requirements for HPM supply pip­ing. In addition to the requirements in Section 2703.2, HPM supply piping and tubing for HPM gases and liquids shall comply with this section. 
2703.2.3.1 General requirements. The requirements set forth in Section 5003.2.2.2 shall apply to supply piping and tubing for HPM gases and liquids. 
2703.2.3.2 Health-hazard ranking 3 or 4 HPM. Sup­ply piping and tubing for HPM gases and liquids hav­ing a health-hazard ranking of 3 or 4 shall be welded throughout, except for connections located within a ventilation enclosure if the material is a gas, or an approved method of drainage or containment provided for connections if the material is a liquid. 
2703.3 Construction requirements. Construction of semi­conductor fabrication facilities shall be in accordance with Sections 2703.3.1 through 2703.3.9. 
2703.3.1 Fabrication areas. Construction and location of fabrication areas shall comply with the California Build­ing Code. 
2703.3.2 Pass-throughs in exit access corridors. Pass­throughs in exit access corridors shall be constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
2703.3.3 Liquid storage rooms. Liquid storage rooms shall comply with Chapter 57 and the California Building Code. 
2703.3.4 HPM rooms. HPM rooms shall comply with the 
California Building Code. 
2703.3.5 Gas cabinets. Gas cabinets shall comply with Section 5003.8.6. 
2703.3.6 Exhausted enclosures. Exhausted enclosures shall comply with Section 5003.8.5. 
2703.3.7 Gas rooms. Gas rooms shall comply with Sec­tion 5003.8.4. 
2703.3.8 Service corridors. Service corridors shall com­ply with Section 2705.3 and the California Building Code. 
2703.3.9 Cabinets containing pyrophoric liquids or water-reactive Class 3 liquids. Cabinets in fabrication areas containing pyrophoric liquids or Class 3 water-reac­tive liquids in containers or in amounts greater than 1gal­
/2 

lon (2 L) shall comply with Section 2705.2.3.4. 
2703.4 Emergency plan. An emergency plan shall be estab­lished as set forth in Section 408.4. 
2703.5 Maintenance of equipment, machinery and pro­cesses. Maintenance of equipment, machinery and processes shall comply with Section 5003.2.6. 
2703.6 Security of areas. Areas shall be secured in accor­dance with Section 5003.9.2. 
2703.7 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equipment in HPM facilities shall comply with Sections 2703.7.1 through 2703.7.3. 
2703.7.1 Fabrication areas. Electrical wiring and equip­ment in fabrication areas shall comply with California Electrical Code. 
2703.7.2 Workstations. Electrical equipment and devices within 5 feet (1524 mm) of workstations in which flamma­ble or pyrophoric gases or flammable liquids are used shall comply with California Electrical Code for Class I, Divi­sion 2 hazardous locations. Workstations shall not be ener­gized without adequate exhaust ventilation in accordance with Section 2703.14. 
Exception: Class I, Division 2 hazardous electrical equipment is not required when the air removal from the workstation or dilution will prevent the accumula­tion of flammable vapors and fumes on a continuous basis. 
2703.7.3 Hazardous production material (HPM) rooms, gas rooms and liquid storage rooms. Electrical wiring and equipment in HPM rooms, gas rooms and liq­uid storage rooms shall comply with California Electrical Code. 
2703.8 Corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps. Hazardous materials shall not be used or stored in corridors or enclosures for stairways and ramps. 
2703.9 Service corridors. Hazardous materials shall not be used in an open-system use condition in service corridors. 
2703.10 Automatic sprinkler system. An approved auto­matic sprinkler system shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2703.10.1 through 2703.10.5 and Chapter 9. 
2703.10.1 Workstations and tools. The design of the sprinkler system in the area shall take into consideration the spray pattern and the effect on the equipment. 
2703.10.1.1 Combustible workstations. A sprinkler head shall be installed within each branch exhaust con­nection or individual plenums of workstations of com­bustible construction. The sprinkler head in the exhaust connection or plenum shall be located not more than 2 feet (610 mm) from the point of the duct connection or the connection to the plenum. When necessary to pre­vent corrosion, the sprinkler head and connecting pip­ing in the duct shall be coated with approved or listed corrosion-resistant materials. The sprinkler head shall be accessible for periodic inspection. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Approved alternative automatic fire-extin­guishing systems are allowed. Activation of such systems shall deactivate the related pro­cessing equipment. 

2. 	
Process equipment which operates at tempera­tures exceeding 932°F (500°C) and is pro­vided with automatic shutdown capabilities for hazardous materials. 

3. 	
Exhaust ducts 10 inches (254 mm) or less in diameter from flammable gas storage cabinets that are part of a workstation. 

4. 
Ducts listed or approved for use without inter­nal automatic sprinkler protection. 


2703.10.1.2 Combustible tools. Where the horizontal surface of a combustible tool is obstructed from ceiling sprinkler discharge, automatic sprinkler protection that covers the horizontal surface of the tool shall be pro­vided. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
An automatic gaseous fire-extinguishing local surface application system shall be allowed as an alternative to sprinklers. Gaseous-extin­guishing systems shall be actuated by infrared (IR) or ultraviolet/infrared (UV /IR) optical detectors. 

2. 	
Tools constructed of materials that are listed as Class 1 or Class 2 in accordance with UL 2360 or approved for use without internal fire­extinguishing system protection. 



2703.10.2 Gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures. An approved automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures containing HPM compressed gases. 
Exception: Gas cabinets located in an HPM room other than those cabinets containing pyrophoric gases. 
SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES 

2703.10.3 Pass-throughs in existing exit access corri­dors. Pass-throughs in existing exit access corridors shall be protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
2703.10.4 Exhaust ducts for HPM. An approved auto­matic sprinkler system shall be provided in exhaust ducts conveying gases, vapors, fumes, mists or dusts generated from HPM in accordance with this section and the Califor­nia Mechanical Code. 
2703.10.4.1 Metallic and noncombustible nonmetal­lic exhaust ducts. An approved automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in metallic and noncombusti­ble nonmetallic exhaust ducts when all of the following conditions apply: 
1. 	
When the largest cross-sectional diameter IS equal to or greater than 10 inches (254 mm). 

2. 	
The ducts are within the building. 

3. 	
The ducts are conveying flammable gases, vapors or fumes. 


2703.10.4.2 Combustible nonmetallic exhaust ducts. An approved automatic sprinkler system shall be pro­vided in combustible nonmetallic exhaust ducts when the largest cross-sectional diameter of the duct is equal to or greater than 10 inches (254 mm). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Ducts listed or approved for applications with­out automatic sprinkler system protection. 

2. 	
Ducts not more than 12 feet (3658 mm) in length installed below ceiling level. 


2703.10.4.3 Exhaust connections and plenums of combustible workstations. Automatic fire-extinguish­ing system protection for exhaust connections and ple­nums of combustible workstations shall comply with Section 2703.10.1.1. 
2703.10.4.4 Exhaust duct sprinkler system require­ments. Automatic sprinklers installed in exhaust duct systems shall be hydraulically designed to provide 0.5 gallons per minute (gpm) (1.9 Llmin) over an area derived by multiplying the distance between the sprin­klers in a horizontal duct by the width of the duct. Min­imum discharge shall be 20 gpm (76 L/min) per sprinkler from the five hydraulically most remote sprin­klers. 
2703.10.4.4.1 Sprinkler head locations. Automatic sprinklers shall be installed at 12-foot (3658 mm) intervals in horizontal ducts and at changes in direc­tion. In vertical runs, automatic sprinklers shall be installed at the top and at alternate floor levels. 
2703.10.4.4.2 Control valve. A separate indicating control valve shall be provided for sprinklers installed in exhaust ducts. 
2703.10.4.4.3 Drainage. Drainage shall be provided to remove sprinkler water discharged in exhaust ducts. 
2703.10.4.4.4 Corrosive atmospheres. Where cor­rosive atmospheres exist, exhaust duct sprinklers 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
and pipe fittings shall be manufactured of corrosion­resistant materials or coated with approved materi­als. 
2703.10.4.4.5 Maintenance and inspection. Sprin­klers in exhaust ducts shall be accessible for peri­odic inspection and maintenance. 

2703.10.5 Sprinkler alarms and supervision. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be electrically supervised and pro­vided with alarms in accordance with Chapter 9. Auto­matic sprinkler system alarm and supervisory signals shall be transmitted to the emergency control station. 
2703.11 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system shall be installed throughout buildings containing a Group H-5 occupancy. Activation of the alarm system shall initiate a local alarm and transmit a signal to the emergency control station. Manual fire alarm systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Section 907. 
2703.12 Emergency alarm system. Emergency alarm sys­tems shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2703.12.1 through 2703.12.3, Section 5004.9 and Section 5005.4.4. The maximum allowable quantity per control area provisions of Section 5004.1 shall not apply to emergency alarm systems required for HPM. 
2703.12.1 Where required. Emergency alarm systems shall be provided in the areas indicated in Sections 2703.12.1.1 through 2703.12.1.3. 
2703.12.1.1 Service corridors. An approved emergency alarm system shall be provided in service corridors, with at least one alarm device in the service corridor. 
2703.12.1.2 Corridors and interior exit stairways and ramps. Emergency alarms for corridors, interior exit stairways and ramps and exit passageways shall comply with Section 5005.4.4. 
2703.12.1.3 Liquid storage rooms, HPM rooms and gas rooms. Emergency alarms for liquid storage rooms, HPM rooms and gas rooms shall comply with Section 5004.9. 
2703.12.2 Alarm-initiating devices. An approved emer­gency telephone system, local alarm manual pull stations, or other approved alarm-initiating devices are allowed to be used as emergency alarm-initiating devices. 
2703.12.3 Alarm signals. Activation of the emergency alarm system shall sound a local alarm and transmit a sig­nal to the emergency control station. 
2703.13 Continuous gas detection systems. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided for HPM gases when the physiological warning threshold level of the gas is at a higher level than the accepted permissible exposure limit (PEL) for the gas and for flammable gases in accordance with Sections 2703.13.1 through 2703.13.2.2. 
2703.13.1 Where required. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided in the areas identified in Sections 2703.13.1.1 through 2703.13.1.4. 
2703.13.1.1 Fabrication areas. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided in fabrication areas when gas is used in the fabrication area. 
2703.13.1.2 HPM rooms. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided in HPM rooms when gas is used in the room. 
2703.13.1.3 Gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures and gas rooms. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided in gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures. A continuous gas detection system shall be provided in gas rooms when gases are not located in gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures. 
2703.13.1.4 Corridors. When gases are transported in piping placed within the space defined by the walls of a corridor and the floor or roof above the corridor, a con­tinuous gas detection system shall be provided where piping is located and in the corridor. 
Exception: A continuous gas detection system is not required for occasional transverse crossings of the corridors by supply piping which is enclosed in a ferrous pipe or tube for the width of the corridor. 
2703.13.2 Gas detection system operation. The continu­ous gas detection system shall be capable of monitoring the room, area or equipment in which the gas is located at or below all the following gas concentrations: 
1. 	
Immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH) values when the monitoring point is within an exhausted enclosure, ventilated enclosure or gas cabinet. 

2. 	
Permissible exposure limit (PEL) levels when the monitoring point is in an area outside an exhausted enclosure, ventilated enclosure or gas cabinet. 

3. 	
For flammable gases, the monitoring detection threshold level shall be vapor concentrations in excess of 25 percent of the lower flammable limit (LFL) when the monitoring is within or outside an exhausted enclosure, ventilated enclosure or gas cabinet. 

4. 	
Except as noted in this section, monitoring for highly toxic and toxic gases shall also comply with Chapter 60. 


2703.13.2.1 Alarms. The gas detection system shall initiate a local alarm and transmit a signal to the emer­gency control station when a short-term hazard condi­tion is detected. The alarm shall be both visible and audible and shall provide warning both inside and out­side the area where the gas is detected. The audible alarm shall be distinct from all other alarms. 
2703.13.2.2 Shut off of gas supply. The gas detection system shall automatically close the shutoff valve at the source on gas supply piping and tubing related to the system being monitored for which gas is detected when a short-term hazard condition is detected. Automatic closure of shutoff valves shall comply with the follow­ing: 
1. 	
Where the gas-detection sampling point initiating the gas detection system alarm is within a gas cabinet or exhausted enclosure, the shutoff valve in the gas cabinet or exhausted enclosure for the specific gas detected shall automatically close. 

2. 
Where the gas-detection sampling point initiating the gas detection system alarm is within a room and compressed gas containers are not in gas cab­inets or exhausted enclosure, the shutoff valves on all gas lines for the specific gas detected shall automatically close. 

3. 	
Where the gas-detection sampling point initiating the gas detection system alarm is within a piping distribution manifold enclosure, the shutoff valve supplying the manifold for the compressed gas container of the specific gas detected shall auto­matically close. 


Exception: Where the gas-detection sampling point initiating the gas detection system alarm is at the use location or within a gas valve enclosure of a branch line downstream of a piping distribution manifold, the shutoff valve for the branch line located in the piping distribution manifold enclosure shall auto­matically close. 

2703.14 Exhaust ventilation systems for HPM. Exhaust ventilation systems and materials for exhaust ducts utilized for the exhaust ofHPM shall comply with Sections 2703.14.1 through 2703.14.3, other applicable provisions of this code, the California Building Code and the California Mechanical Code. 
2703.14.1 Where required. Exhaust ventilation systems shall be provided in the following locations in accordance with the requirements of this section and the California Building Code: 
1. 	
Fabrication areas: Exhaust ventilation for fabrication areas shall comply with the California Building Code. The fire code official is authorized to require additional manual control switches. 

2. 
Workstations: 	A ventilation system shall be pro­vided to capture and exhaust gases, fumes and vapors at workstations. 

3. 	
Liquid storage rooms: Exhaust ventilation for liquid storage rooms shall comply with Section 5004.3.1 and the California Building Code. 

4. 
HPM rooms: 	Exhaust ventilation for HPM rooms shall comply with Section 5004.3.1 and the Califor­nia Building Code. 

5. 	
Gas cabinets: Exhaust ventilation for gas cabinets shall comply with Section 5003.8.6.2. The gas cabi­net ventilation system is allowed to connect to a workstation ventilation system. Exhaust ventilation for gas cabinets containing highly toxic or toxic gases shall also comply with Chapter 60. 


SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES 
6. 	
Exhausted enclosures: Exhaust ventilation for exhausted enclosures shall comply with Section 5003.8.5.2. Exhaust ventilation for exhausted enclo­sures containing highly toxic or toxic gases shall also comply with Chapter 60. 

7. 
Gas rooms: Exhaust ventilation for gas rooms shall comply with Section 5003.8.4.2. Exhaust ventilation for gas rooms containing highly toxic or toxic gases shall also comply with Chapter 60. 

8. 	
Cabinets containing pyrophoric liquids or Class 3 water-reactive liquids: Exhaust ventilation for cabi­nets in fabrication areas containing pyrophoric liq­uids or Class 3 water-reactive liquids shall be as required in Section 2705.2.3.4. 


2703.14.2 Penetrations. Exhaust ducts penetrating fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies con­structed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code shall be contained in a shaft of equivalent fire-resistance-rated construction. Exhaust ducts shall not penetrate fire walls. Fire dampers shall not be installed in exhaust ducts. 
2703.14.3 Treatment systems. Treatment systems for highly toxic and toxic gases shall comply with Chapter 60. 

2703.15 Emergency power system. An emergency power system shall be provided in Group H-5 occupancies where required by Section 604. The emergency power system shall be designed to supply power automatically to required elec­trical systems when the normal supply system is interrupted. 
2703.15.1 Required electrical systems. Emergency power shall be provided for electrically operated equip­ment and connected control circuits for the following sys­tems: 
1. 	
HPM exhaust ventilation systems. 

2. 	
HPM gas cabinet ventilation systems. 

3. 	
HPM exhausted enclosure ventilation systems. 

4. 	
HPM gas room ventilation systems. 

5. 	
HPM gas detection systems. 

6. 	
Emergency alarm systems. 

7. 	
Manual fire alarm systems. 

8. 	
Automatic sprinkler system monitoring and alarm systems. 

9. 	
Automatic alarm and detection systems for pyro­phoric liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids required in Section 2705.2.3.4. 

10. 	
Flow alarm switches for pyrophoric liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids cabinet exhaust ven­tilation systems required in Section 2705.2.3.4. 

11. 	
Electrically operated systems required elsewhere in this code or in the California Building Code applicable to the use, storage or handling of HPM. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2703.15.2 Exhaust ventilation systems. Exhaust ventila­tion systems are allowed to be designed to operate at not less than one-half the normal fan speed on the emergency power system when it is demonstrated that the level of exhaust will maintain a safe atmosphere. 
2703.16 Sub-atmospheric pressure gas systems. Sub­atmospheric pressure gas systems (SAGS) shall be in accor­dance with NFPA 318. 
SECTION 2704 
STORAGE 


2704.1 General. Storage of hazardous materials shall comply with Section 2703 and this section and other applicable provi­sions of this code. 
2704.2 Fabrication areas. Hazardous materials storage and the maximum quantities of hazardous materials in use and storage allowed in fabrication areas shall be in accordance with Sections 2704.2.1 through 2704.2.2.1. 
2704.2.1 Location of HPM storage in fabrication areas. Storage of HPM in fabrication areas shall be within approved or listed storage cabinets, gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures or within a workstation as follows. 
1. 	
Flammable and combustible liquid storage cabinets shall comply with Section 5704.3.2. 

2. 	
Hazardous materials storage cabinets shall comply with Section 5003.8.7. 

3. 	
Gas cabinets shall comply with Section 5003.8.6. Gas cabinets for highly toxic or toxic gases shall also comply with Section 6004.1.2. 

4. 	
Exhausted enclosures shall comply with Section 5003.8.5. Exhausted enclosures for highly toxic or toxic gases shall also comply with Section 6004.1.3. 

5. 	
Workstations shall comply with Section 2705.2.3. 


2704.2.2 Maximum aggregate quantities in fabrication areas. The aggregate quantities of hazardous matetials stored or used in a single fabrication area shall be limited as specified in this section. 
Exception: Fabrication areas containing quantities of hazardous materials not exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area established by Sections 5003.1.1, 5704.3.4 and 5704.3.5. 
2704.2.2.1 Storage and use in fabrication areas. The maximum quantities of hazardous materials stored or used in a single fabrication area shall not exceed the quantities set forth in Table 2704.2.2.1. 
2704.3 Indoor storage outside of fabrication areas. The indoor storage of hazardous materials outside of fabrication areas shall be in accordance with Sections 2704.3.1 through 2704.3.3. 
2704.3.1 HPM storage. The indoor storage of HPM in quantities greater than those listed in Sections 5003.1.1 and 3404.3.4 shall be in a room complying with the requirements of the California Building Code and this code for a liquid storage room, HPM room or gas room as appropriate for the materials stored. 
2704.3.2 Other hazardous materials storage. The indoor storage of other hazardous materials shall comply with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004 and other applicable provi­sions of this code. 
2704.3.3 Separation of incompatible hazardous materi­als. Incompatible hazardous materials in storage shall be separated from each other in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
SECTION 2705 
USE AND HANDLING 


2705.1 General. The use and handling of hazardous materi­
als shall comply with this section, Section 2703 and other 
applicable provisions of this code. 
2705.2 Fabrication areas. The use of hazardous materials in fabrication areas shall be in accordance with Sections 2705.2.1 through 2705.2.3.4. 
2705.2.1 Location of HPM in use in fabrication areas. Hazardous production materials in use in fabrication areas shall be within approved or listed gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures or a workstation. 
2705.2.2 Maximum aggregate quantities in fabrication areas. The aggregate quantities of hazardous matetials in a single fabrication area shall comply with Section 2704.2.2, and Table 2704.2.2.1. The quantity of HPM in use at a workstation shall not exceed the quantities listed in Table 2705.2.2. 
2705.2.3 Workstations. Workstations in fabrication areas shall be in accordance with Sections 2705.2.3.1 through 2705.2.3.4. 
2705.2.3.1 Construction. Workstations in fabrication areas shall be constmcted of materials compatible with the materials used and stored at the workstation. The portion of the workstation that serves as a cabinet for HPM gases and HPM flammable liquids shall be non­combustible and, if of metal, shall be not less than 0.0478-inch (18 gage) (1.2 mm) steel. 
2705.2.3.2 Protection of vessels. Vessels containing hazardous materials located in or connected to a work­station shall be protected as follows: 
1. 	
HPM: Vessels containing HPM shall be protected from physical damage and shall not project from the workstation. 

2. 	
Hazardous cryogenic fluids, gases and liquids: Hazardous cryogenic fluid, gas and liquid vessels located within a workstation shall be protected from seismic forces in an approved manner in accordance with the California Building Code. 

3. 	
Compressed gases: Protection for compressed gas vessels shall also comply with Section 5303.5. 

4. 	
Cryogenic fluids: Protection for cryogenic fluid vessels shall also comply with Section 5503.5. 


SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES 

TABLE 2704.2.2.1 QUANTITY LIMITS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN A SINGLE FABRICATION AREA IN GROUP H-s• 
HAZARD CATEGORY  SOLIDS (pounds/square foot)  LIQUIDS (gallons/square foot)  GAS (cubic feet @ NTP/square foot)  
PHYSICAL-HAZARD MATERIALS  
Combustible dust  Noteb  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Combustible fiber Loose Baled  Note b Notes b, c  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Combustible liquid Class II Class IliA Class IIIB Combination Class I, II and IliA  Not Applicable  0.01 0.02 Not Limited 0.04  Not Applicable  
Cryogenic gas Flammable Oxidizing  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Noted 1.25  
Explosives  Noteb  Noteb  Note b  
Flammable gas Gaseous Liquefied  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Noted Noted  
Flammable liquid Class IA Class IB ClassIC Combination Class IA, IB and IC Combination Class I, II and IliA  Not Applicable  0.0025 0.025 0.025 0.025 0.04  Not Applicable  
Flammable solid  0.001  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Organic peroxide Unclassified detonable Class I Class II Class III Class IV Class V  Noteb Noteb 0.025 0.1 Not Limited Not Limited  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Oxidizing gas Gaseous Liquefied Combination of Gaseous and Liq­uefied  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  1.25 1.25 1.25  
Oxidizer Class 4 Class 3 Class 2 Class 1 Combination oxidizer Class 1, 2, 3  Noteb 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.003  Note b 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03  Not Applicable  
Pyrophoric  0.01  0.00125  Notes d and e  
Unstable reactive Class 4 Class 3 Class 2 Class 1  Noteb 0.025 0.1 Not Limited  Note b 0.0025 0.01 Not Limited  Note b Note b Note b Not Limited  

(continued) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 2704.2.2.1-continued QUANTITY LIMITS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN A SINGLE FABRICATION AREA IN GROUP H-5 
HAZARD CATEGORY  SOLIDS (pounds/square foot)  LIQUIDS (gallons/square foot)  GAS (cubic feet @ NTP/square foot)  
PHYSICAL-HAZARD MATERIALS  
Water reactive Class 3 Class 2 Class 1  Note b 0.25 Not Limited  0.00125 0.025 Not Limited  Not Applicable  
HEALTH-HAZARD MATERIALS  
Corrosives  Not Limited  Not Limited  Not Limited  
Highly toxics  Not Limited  Not Limited  Noted  
Toxics  Not Limited  Not Limited  Noted  

For SI: 1 pound per square foot= 4.882 kg/m2, 1 gallon per square foot= 40.7 Llm2, 1 cubic foot @ NTP/square foot= 0.305 m3 @ NTP/m2, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 
a. 
Hazardous materials within piping shall not be included in the calculated quantities. 

b. 	
Quantity of hazardous materials in a single fabrication area shall not exceed the maximum allowable quantities per control area in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2). 

c. 
Densely packed baled cotton that complies with the packing requirements of ISO 8115 shall not be included in this material class. 

d. 
The aggregate quantity of flammable, pyrophoric, toxic and highly toxic gases shall not exceed 9,000 cubic feet at NTP. 

e. 
The aggregate quantity of pyrophoric gases in the building shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Table 5003.8.2. 


2705.2.3.3 Drainage and containment for HPM liq­uids. Each workstation utilizing HPM liquids shall have all of the following: 
1. 	
Drainage piping systems connected to a compati­ble system for disposition of such liquids; 

2. 	
The work surface provided with a slope or other means for directing spilled materials to the con­tainment or drainage system; and 

3. 	
An approved means of containing or directing spilled or leaked liquids to the drainage system. 



2705.2.3.4 Pyrophoric solids, liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids. Pyrophoric liquids and Class 3 water-reactive liquids in containers greater than 0.5­gallon (2 L) but not exceeding 5.3-gallon (20 L) capac­ity and pyrophoric solids in containers greater than 4.4 pounds (2 kg) but not exceeding 44 pounds (20 kg) shall be allowed at workstations when located inside cabinets and the following conditions are met: 
1. 	
Maximum amount per cabinet: The maximum amount per cabinet shall be limited to 5.3 gallons (20 L) of liquids and 44 pounds (20 kg) of total liquids and solids. 

2. 	
Cabinet construction: Cabinets shall be con­structed in accordance with the following: 


2.1. Cabinets shall be constructed of not less than 0.097-inch (2.5 mm) (12 gage) steel. 
2.2. Cabinets shall be permitted to have self­closing limited access ports or noncom­bustible windows that provide access to equipment controls. 
2.3. Cabinets shall be provided with self-or manual-closing doors. Manual-closing doors shall be equipped with a door switch that will initiate local audible and visual alarms when the door is in the open position. 

3. 	Cabinet exhaust ventilation system: An exhaust ventilation system shall be provided for cabinets and shall comply with the following: 
3.1. The system shall be designed to operate at a negative pressure in relation to the sur­rounding area. 
3.2. The system shall be equipped with moni­toring equipment to ensure that required exhaust flow or static pressure is pro­vided. 

3.3. 
Low-flow 	or static pressure conditions shall send an alarm to the on-site emer­gency control station. The alarm shall be both visual and audible. 


4. 	
Cabinet spill containment: Spill containment shall be provided in each cabinet, with the spill containment capable of holding the contents of the aggregate amount of liquids in containers in each cabinet. 

5. 	
Valves: Valves in supply piping between the product containers in the cabinet and the worksta­tion served by the containers shall fail in the closed position upon power failure, loss of exhaust ventilation and upon actuation of the fire control system. 

6. 	
Fire detection system: Each cabinet shall be equipped with an automatic fire detection system complying with the following conditions: 


6.1. Automatic 	detection system: UV fiR, high-sensitivity smoke detection (HSSD) or other approved detection systems shall be provided inside each cabinet. 

TABLE 2705.2.2 
MAXIMUM QUANTITIES OF HPM AT A WORKSTATIONd 


HPM CLASSIFICATION  STATE  MAXIMUM QUANTITY  
Flammable, highly toxic, pyrophoric and toxic combined  Gas  Combined aggregate volume of all cylinders at a workstation shall not exceed an internal cylinder volume of 39.6 gallons or 5.29 cubic feet  
Flammable  Liquid Solid  15 gallons'· b 5 pounds'·b  
Corrosive  Gas Liquid Solid  Combined aggregate volume of all cylinders at a workstation shall not exceed an internal cylinder volume of 39.6 gallons or 5.29 cubic feet Use-open system: 25 gallonsb Use-closed system: !50 gallonsb.e 20 pounds'· b  
Highly toxic  Liquid Solid  15 gallons' 5 pounds'  
Oxidizer  Gas Liquid Solid  Combined aggregate volume of all cylinders at a workstation shall not exceed an internal cylinder volume of 39.6 gallons or 5.29 cubic feet Use-open system: 12 gallonsb Use-closed system: 60 gallonsb 20 pounds'· b  
Pyrophoric  Liquid Solid  0.5 gallon'· r 4.4 pounds'·'  
Toxic  Liquid Solid  Use-open system: 15 gallonsb Use-closed system: 60 gallonsb 5 pounds'·b  
Unstable reactive Class 3  Liquid Solid  0.5 gallon'· b 5 pounds'·b  
Water-reactive Class 3  Liquid Solid  0.5 gallon'· r See Table 2704.2.2.1  

For SI: I pound= 0.454 kg, I gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased I 00 percent for closed system operations. When Note b also applies, the increase for both notes shall be allowed. 

b. 
Quantities shall be allowed to be increased 100 percent when workstations are internally protected with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing or suppression system complying with Chapter 9. When Note b also applies, the increase for both notes shall be allowed. When Note e also applies, the maximum increase allowed for both Notes b and e shall not exceed 100 percent. 

c. 	
Allowed only in workstations that are internally protected with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing or fire protection system complying with Chapter 9 and compatible with the reactivity of materials in use at the workstation. 

d. 
The quantity limits apply only to materials classified as HPM. 

e. 	
Quantities shall be allowed to be increased 100 percent for nonflammable, noncombustible corrosive liquids when the materials of construction for workstations are listed or approved for use without internal fire­extinguishing or suppression system protection. When Note b also applies, the maximum increase allowed for both Notes band e shall not exceed 100 percent. A maximum quantity of 5.3 gallons of liquids and 44 pounds of total liquids and solids shall be allowed at a workstation when conditions are in accordance with Section 2705.2.3.5. 


SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITIES 
6.2. Automatic 	shutoff: Activation of the detection system shall automatically close the shutoff valves at the source on the liq­uid supply. 
6.3. Alarms 	and signals: Activation of the detection system shall initiate a local alarm within the fabrication area and transmit a signal to the emergency control station. The alarms and signals shall be both visual and audible. 

2705.3 Transportation and handling. The transportation and handling of hazardous materials shall comply with Sec­tions 2705.3.1 through 2705.3.4.1 and other applicable provi­sions of this code. 
2705.3.1 Corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps. Corridors and enclosures for exit stairways and ramps in new buildings or serving new fabrication areas shall not contain HPM, except as permitted in corridors by Section 415.10.6.4 of the California Building Code and Section 2705.3.2 of this code. 
2705.3.2 Transport in corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps. Transport in corridors and enclo­sures for stairways and ramps shall be in accordance with Sections 2705.3.2.1 through 2705.3.3. 
2705.3.2.1 Fabrication area alterations. When exist­ing fabrication areas are altered or modified in existing buildings, HPM is allowed to be transported in existing corridors when such corridors comply with Section 5003.10 of this code and Section 415.10.2 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. 
2705.3.2.2 HPM transport in corridors and enclo­sures for stairways and ramps. Nonproduction HPM is allowed to be transported in corridors and enclosures for stairways and ramps where utilized for mainte­nance, lab work and testing when the transportation is in accordance with Section 5003.10. 
2705.3.3 Service corridors. When a new fabrication area is constructed, a service corridor shall be provided where it is necessary to transport HPM from a liquid storage room, HPM room, gas room or from the outside of a build­ing to the perimeter wall of a fabrication area. Service cor­ridors shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
2705.3.4 Carts and trucks. Carts and trucks used to trans­
port HPM in corridors and enclosures for stairways and 
ramps shall comply with Section 5003.10.3. 
2705.3.4.1 Identification. Carts and trucks shall be marked to indicate the contents. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 28-LUMBER YARDS AND WOODWORKING FACILITIES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 28 
LUMBER YARDS AND WOODWORKING FACILITIES 
SECTION 2801 
GENERAL 


2801.1 Scope. The storage, manufacturing and processing of timber, lumber, plywood, veneers and byproducts shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
2801.2 Permit. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 2802 
DEFINITIONS 


2802.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­
ter 2: 
COLD DECK. 
FINES. 
HOGGED MATERIALS. 
PLYWOOD AND VENEER MILLS. 
RAW PRODUCT. 
STATIC PILES. 
TIMBER AND LUMBER PRODUCTION FACILITIES. 

SECTION 2803 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


2803.1 Open yards. Open yards required by the California Building Code shall be maintained around structures. 
2803.2 Dust control. Equipment or machinery located inside buildings that generates or emits combustible dust shall be provided with an approved dust collection and exhaust sys­tem installed in accordance with Chapter 22 and the Califor­nia Mechanical Code. Equipment or systems that are used to collect, process or convey combustible dusts shall be pro­vided with an approved explosion control system. 
2803.2.1 Explosion venting. Where a dust explosion haz­ard exists in equipment rooms, buildings or other enclo­sures, such areas shall be provided with explosion (deflagration) venting or an approved explosion suppres­sion system complying with Section 911. 
2803.3 Waste removal. Sawmills, planning mills and other woodworking plants shall be equipped with a waste removal system that will collect and remove sawdust and shavings. Such systems shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 22 and the California Mechanical Code. 
Exception: Manual waste removal when approved. 
2803.3.1 Housekeeping. Provisions shall be made for a systematic and thorough cleaning of the entire plant at suf­ficient intervals to prevent the accumulations of combusti­ble dust and spilled combustible or flammable liquids. 
2803.3.2 Metal scrap. Provision shall be made for sepa­rately collecting and disposing of any metal scrap so that such scrap will not enter the wood handling or processing equipment. 
2803.4 Electrical equipment. Electrical wiring and equip­ment shall comply with California Electrical Code. 
2803.5 Control of ignition sources. Protection from ignition sources shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2803.5.1 through 2803.5.3. 
2803.5.1 Cutting and welding. Cutting and welding shall comply with Chapter 35. 
2803.5.2 Static electricity. Static electricity shall be pre­vented from accumulating on machines and equipment subject to static electricity buildup by permanent ground­ing and bonding wires or other approved means. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2803.5.3 Smoking. Where smoking constitutes a fire haz­ard, the fire code official is authorized to order the owner or occupant to post approved "No Smoking" signs com­plying with Section 310. The fire code official is autho­rized to designate specific locations where smoking is allowed. 
2803.6 Fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for buildings and facilities in accor­dance with Section 503. 
2803.7 Access plan. Where storage pile configurations could change because of changes in product operations and pro­cessing, the access plan shall be submitted for approval when required by the fire code official. 
SECTION 2804 
FIRE PROTECTION 


2804.1 General. Fire protection in timber and lumber pro­duction mills and plywood and veneer mills shall comply with Sections 2804.2 through 2804.4. 
2804.2 Fire alarms. An approved means for transmitting alarms to the fire department shall be provided in timber and lumber production mills and plywood and veneer mills. 
2804.2.1 Manual fire alarms. A manual fire alarm sys­tem complying with Section 907.2 shall be installed in areas of timber and lumber production mills and for ply­wood and veneer mills that contain product dryers. 
Exception: Where dryers or other sources of ignition are protected by a supervised automatic sprinkler sys­tem complying with Section 903. 
2804.3 Portable fire extinguishers or standpipes and hose. Portable fire extinguishers or standpipes and hose supplied from an approved water system shall be provided within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of travel distance to any machine producing shavings or sawdust. Portable fire extinguishers shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 906 for extra-high hazards. 
2804.4 Automatic sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
SECTION 2805 
PLYWOOD, VENEER AND 
COMPOSITE BOARD MILLS 


2805.1 General. Plant operations of plywood, veneer and composite board mills shall comply with Sections 2805.2 and 2805.3. 
2805.2 Dryer protection. Dryers shall be protected through­out by an approved, automatic deluge water-spray suppres­sion system complying with Chapter 9. Deluge heads shall be inspected quarterly for pitch buildup. Deluge heads shall be flushed during regular maintenance for functional operation. Manual activation valves shall be located within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of the drying equipment. 
2805.3 Thermal oil-heating systems. Facilities that use heat transfer fluids to provide process equipment heat through piped, indirect heating systems shall comply with this code and NFP A 664. 
SECTION 2806 
LOG STORAGE AREAS 


2806.1 General. Log storage areas shall comply with Sec­tions 2806.2 through 2806.3. 
2806.2 Cold decks. Cold decks shall not exceed 500 feet 
(152.4 m) in length, 300 feet (91 440 mm) in width and 20 feet (6096 mm) in height. Cold decks shall be separated from adjacent cold decks or other exposures by a minimum of 100 feet (30 480 mm). 
Exception: The size of cold decks shall be determined by the fire code official where the decks are protected by spe­cial fire protection including, but not limited to, additional fire flow, portable turrets and deluge sets, and hydrant hose houses equipped with approved fire-fighting equip­ment capable of reaching the entire storage area in accor­dance with Chapter 9. 
2806.3 Pile stability. Log and pole piles shall be stabilized by approved means. 
SECTION 2807 
STORAGE OF WOOD CHIPS AND HOGGED 
MATERIAL ASSOCIATED WITH TIMBER AND 
LUMBER PRODUCTION FACILITIES 

2807.1 General. The storage of wood chips and hogged materials associated with timber and lumber production facil­ities shall comply with Sections 2807.2 through 2807.5. 
2807.2 Size of piles. Piles shall not exceed 60 feet (18 288 mm) in height, 300 feet (91 440 mm) in width and 500 feet (152m) in length. Piles shall be separated from adjacent piles or other exposures by approved fire apparatus access roads. 
Exception: The fire code official is authorized to allow the pile size to be increased when additional fire protection is provided in accordance with Chapter 9. The increase shall be based on the capabilities of the system installed. 
2807.3 Pile fire protection. Automatic sprinkler protection shall be provided in conveyor tunnels and combustible enclo­sures that pass under a pile. Combustible or enclosed con­veyor systems shall be equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
2807.4 Material-handling equipment. Approved material­handling equipment shall be readily available for moving wood chips and hogged material. 
2807.5 Emergency plan. The owner or operator shall develop a plan for monitoring, controlling and extinguishing spot fires. The plan shall be submitted to the fire code official for review and approval. 
LUMBER YARDS AND WOODWORKING FACILITIES 

SECTION 2808 
STORAGE AND PROCESSING OF WOOD CHIPS, 
HOGGED MATERIAL, FINES, COMPOST AND RAW 
PRODUCT ASSOCIATED WITH YARD WASTE AND 
RECYCLING FACILITIES 

2808.1 General. The storage and processing of wood chips, hogged materials, fines, compost and raw product produced from yard waste, debris and recycling facilities shall comply with Sections 2808.2 through 2808.10. 
2808.2 Storage site. Storage sites shall be level and on solid ground or other all-weather surface. Sites shall be thoroughly cleaned before transferring wood products to the site. 
2808.3 Size of piles. Piles shall not exceed 25 feet (7620 mm) in height, 150 feet (45 720 mm) in width and 250 feet (76 200 mm) in length. 
Exception: The fire code official is authorized to allow the pile size to be increased when additional fire protection is provided in accordance with Chapter 9. The increase shall be based upon the capabilities of the system installed. 

2808.4 Pile separation. Piles shall be separated from adja­cent piles by approved fire apparatus access roads. 
2808.5 Combustible waste. The storage, accumulation and handling of combustible materials and control of vegetation shall comply with Chapter 3. 
2808.6 Static pile protection. Static piles shall be monitored by an approved means to measure temperatures within the static piles. Internal pile temperatures shall be monitored and recorded weekly. Records shall be kept on file at the facility and made available for inspection. An operational plan indi­cating procedures and schedules for the inspection, monitor­ing and restricting of excessive internal temperatures in static piles shall be submitted to the fire code official for review and approval. 
2808.7 Pile fire protection. Automatic sprinkler protection shall be provided in conveyor tunnels and combustible enclo­sures that pass under a pile. Combustible conveyor systems and enclosed conveyor systems shall be equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
2808.8 Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers com­plying with Section 906 and with a minimum rating of 4­A:60-B:C shall be provided on all vehicles and equipment operating on piles and at all processing equipment. 
2808.9 Material-handling equipment. Approved material­handling equipment shall be available for moving wood chips, hogged material, wood fines and raw product during fire-fighting operations. 
2808.10 Emergency plan. The owner or operator shall develop a plan for monitoring, controlling and extinguishing spot fires and submit the plan to the fire code official for review and approval. 
SECTION 2809 
EXTERIOR STORAGE OF 
FINISHED LUMBER PRODUCTS 


2809.1 General. Exterior storage of finished lumber products shall comply with Sections 2809.1 through 2809.5. 
2809.2 Size of piles. Exterior lumber storage shall be arranged to form stable piles with a maximum height of 20 feet (6096 mm). Piles shall not exceed 150,000 cubic feet (4248 m3) in volume. 
2809.3 Fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads in accordance with Section 503 shall be located so that a maximum grid system unit of 50 feet by 150 feet (15 240 mm by 45 720 mm) is established. 
2809.4 Security. Permanent lumber storage areas shall be surrounded with an approved fence. Fences shall be a mini­mum of 6 feet (1829 mm) in height. 
Exception: Lumber piles inside of buildings and produc­tion mills for lumber, plywood and veneer. 
2809.5 Fire protection. An approved hydrant and hose sys­tem or portable fire-extinguishing equipment suitable for the fire hazard involved shall be provided for open storage yards. Hydrant and hose systems shall be installed in accordance with NFP A 24. Portable fire extinguishers complying with Section 906 shall be located so that the travel distance to the nearest unit does not exceed 75 feet (22 860 mm). 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 29-MANUFACTURE OF ORGANIC COATINGS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Californza Code ofRegulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Califonua Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 29 
MANUFACTURE OF ORGANIC COATINGS 
SECTION 2901 
GENERAL 


2901.1 Scope. Organic coating manufacturing processes shall comply with this chapter, except that this chapter shall not apply to processes manufacturing nonflammable or water­thinned coatings or to operations applying coating materials. 
2901.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
2901.3 Maintenance. Structures and their service equipment shall be maintained in accordance with this code and NFP A 
35. 
SECTION 2902 
DEFINITION 


2902.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
ORGANIC COATING. 
SECTION 2903 
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS 


2903.1 Building features. Manufacturing of organic coatings shall be done only in buildings that do not have pits or base­ments. 
2903.2 Location. Organic coating manufacturing operations and operations incidental to or connected with organic coat­ing manufacturing shall not be located in buildings having other occupancies. 
2903.3 Fire-fighting access. Organic coating manufacturing operations shall be accessible from at least one side for the purpose of fire control. Approved aisles shall be maintained for the unobstructed movement of personnel and fire suppres­sion equipment. 
2903.4 Fire protection systems. Fire protection systems shall be installed, maintained, periodically inspected and tested in accordance with Chapter 9. 
2903.5 Portable fire extinguishers. A minimum of one por­table fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 for extra hazard shall be provided in organic coating areas. 
2903.6 Open flames. Open flames and direct-fired heating devices shall be prohibited in areas where flammable vapor­air mixtures exist. 
2903.7 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited in accordance with Section 310. 
2903.8 Power equipment. Power-operated equipment and industrial trucks shall be of a type approved for the location. 
2903.9 Tank maintenance. The cleaning of tanks and ves­sels that have contained flammable or combustible liquids shall be performed under the supervision of persons knowl­edgeable of the fire and explosion potential. 
2903.9.1 Repairs. Where necessary to make repairs involving "hot work," the work shall be authorized by the responsible individual before the work begins. 
2903.9.2 Empty containers. Empty flammable or com­bustible liquid containers shall be removed to a detached, outside location and, if not cleaned on the premises, the empty containers shall be removed from the plant as soon as practical. 

2903.10 Drainage. Drainage facilities shall be provided to direct flammable and combustible liquid leakage and fire pro­tection water to an approved location away from the building, any other structure, storage area or adjoining premises. 
2903.11 Alarm system. An approved fire alarm system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 2904 
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND PROTECTION 

2904.1 Wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equip­ment shall comply with this chapter and shall be installed in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
2904.2 Hazardous locations. Where Class I liquids are exposed to the air, the design of equipment and ventilation of structures shall be such as to limit the Class I, Division 1, locations to the following: 
1. 	
Piping trenches. 

2. 	
The interior of equipment. 

3. 	
The immediate vicinity of pumps or equipment loca­tions, such as dispensing stations, open centrifuges, plate and frame filters, opened vacuum filters, change cans and the surfaces of open equipment. The immedi­ate vicinity shall include a zone extending from the vapor liberation point 5 feet (1524 mm) horizontally in all directions and vertically from the floor to a level 3 feet (914 mm) above the highest point of vapor libera­tion. 


2904.2.1 Other locations. Locations within the confines of the manufacturing room where Class I liquids are han­dled shall be Class I, Division 2, except locations indi­cated in Section 2904.2. 
2904.2.2 Ordinary equipment. Ordinary electrical equip­ment, including switchgear, shall be prohibited, except where installed in a room maintained under positive pres­sure with respect to the hazardous area. The air or other media utilized for pressurization shall be obtained from a source that will not cause any amount or type of flamma­ble vapor to be introduced into the room. 
2904.3 Bonding. Equipment including, but not limited to, tanks, machinery and piping, shall be bonded and connected to a ground where an ignitable mixture is capable of being present. 
2904.3.1 Piping. Electrically isolated sections of metallic piping or equipment shall be grounded or bonded to the other grounded portions of the system. 
2904.3.2 Vehicles. Tank vehicles loaded or unloaded through open connections shall be grounded and bonded to the receiving system. 
2904.3.3 Containers. Where a flammable mixture is transferred from one portable container to another, a bond shall be provided between the two containers, and one shall be grounded. 
2904.4 Ground. Metal framing of buildings shall be grounded with resistance of not more than 5 ohms. 
SECTION 2905 
PROCESS STRUCTURES 


2905.1 Design. Process structures shall be designed and con­structed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
2905.2 Fire apparatus access. Fire apparatus access com­plying with Section 503 shall be provided for the purpose of fire control to at least one side of organic coating manufactur­ing operations. 
2905.3 Drainage. Drainage facilities shall be provided in accordance with Section 2903.10 where topographical condi­tions are such that flammable and combustible liquids are capable of flowing from the organic coating manufacturing operation so as to constitute a fire hazard to other premises. 
2905.4 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be pro­vided in areas subject to potential deflagration hazards as indicated in NFPA 35. Explosion control shall be provided in accordance with Section 911. 
2905.5 Ventilation. Enclosed structures in which Class I liq­uids are processed or handled shall be ventilated at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s · m2)] of solid floor area. Ventilation shall be accom­plished by exhaust fans that take suction at floor levels and discharge to a safe location outside the structure. Noncontam­inated intake air shall be introduced in such a manner that all portions of solid floor areas are provided with continuous uniformly distributed air movement. 
2905.6 Heating. Heating provided in hazardous areas shall be by indirect means. Ignition sources such as open flames or electrical heating elements, except as provided for in Section 2904, shall not be permitted within the structure. 
SECTION 2906 
PROCESS MILLS AND KETTLES 


2906.1 Mills. Mills, operating with close clearances, which process flammable and heat-sensitive materials, such as nitro­cellulose, shall be located in a detached building or in a non­combustible structure without other occupancies. The amount of nitrocellulose or other flammable material brought into the area shall not be more than the amount required for a batch. 
2906.2 Mixers. Mixers shall be of the enclosed type or, where of the open type, shall be provided with properly fitted covers. Where flow is by gravity, a shutoff valve shall be installed as close as practical to the mixer, and a control valve shall be provided near the end of the fill pipe. 
2906.3 Open kettles. Open kettles shall be located in an out­side area provided with a protective roof; in a separate struc­ture of noncombustible construction; or separated from other areas by a noncombustible wall having a fire-resistance rating of at least 2 hours. 
2906.4 Closed kettles. Contact-heated kettles containing sol­vents shall be equipped with safety devices that, in case of a fire, will turn off the process heat, turn on the cooling medium and inject inert gas into the kettle. 
2906.4.1 Vaporizer location. The vaporizer section of heat-transfer systems that heat closed kettles containing solvents shall be remotely located. 
2906.5 Kettle controls. The kettle and thin-down tank shall be instrumented, controlled and interlocked so that any fail­ure of the controls will result in a safe condition. The kettle shall be provided with a pressure-rupture disc in addition to the primary vent. The vent piping from the rupture disc shall be of minimum length and shall discharge to an approved location. The thin-down tank shall be adequately vented. Thinning operations shall be provided with an adequate vapor removal system. 
SECTION 2907 
PROCESS PIPING 


2907.1 Design. All piping, valves and fittings shall be designed for the working pressures and structural stresses to which the piping, valves and fittings will be subjected, and shall be of steel or other material approved for the service intended. 
2907.2 Valves. Valves shall be of an indicating type. Termi­nal valves on remote pumping systems shall be of the dead­man type, shutting off both the pump and the flow of solvent. 
2907.3 Support. Piping systems shall be supported ade­quately and protected against physical damage. Piping shall be pitched to avoid unintentional trapping of liquids, or approved drains shall be provided. 
2907.4 Connectors. Approved flexible connectors shall be installed where vibration exists or frequent movement is nec­essary. Hose at dispensing stations shall be of an approved type. 
2907.5 Tests. Before being placed in service, all piping shall be free of leaks when tested for a minimum of 30 minutes at not less than 1.5 times the working pressure or a minimum of 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (35 kPa) at the highest point in the system. 
SECTION 2908 
RAW MATERIALS IN PROCESS AREAS 


2908.1 Nitrocellulose quantity. The amount of nitrocellu­lose brought into the operating area shall not exceed the amount required for a work shift. Nitrocellulose spillage shall be promptly swept up and disposed of properly. 
2908.2 Organic peroxides quantity. Organic peroxides brought into the operating area shall be in the original ship­ping container. When in the operating area, the organic per­oxide shall not be placed in locations exposed to ignition sources, heat or mechanical shocks. 
SECTION 2909 
RAW MATERIALS AND FINISHED PRODUCTS 


2909.1 General. The storage, handling and use of flammable and combustible liquids in process areas shall be in accor­dance with Chapter 57. 
2909.2 Tank storage. Tank storage for flammable and com­bustible liquids located inside of structures shall be limited to storage areas at or above grade which are separated from the processing area in accordance with the California Building Code. Processing equipment containing flammable and com­bustible liquids and storage in quantities essential to the con­tinuity of the operations shall not be prohibited in the processing area. 
MANUFACTURE OF ORGANIC COATINGS 

2909.3 Tank vehicle. Tank car and tank vehicle loading and unloading stations for Class I liquids shall be separated from the processing area, other plant structures, nearest lot line of property that can be built upon or public thoroughfare by a minimum clear distance of 25 feet (7620 mm). 
2909.3.1 Loading. Loading and unloading structures and platforms for flammable and combustible liquids shall be designed and installed in accordance with Chapter 57. 
2909.3.2 Safety. Tank cars for flammable liquids shall be unloaded such that the safety to persons and property is ensured. Tank vehicles for flammable and combustible liquids shall be loaded and unloaded in accordance with Chapter 57. 
2909.4 Nitrocellulose storage. Nitrocellulose storage shall be located on a detached pad or in a separate structure or a room enclosed in accordance with the California Building Code. The nitrocellulose storage area shall not be utilized for any other purpose. Electrical wiring and equipment installed in storage areas adjacent to process areas shall comply with Section 2904.2. 
2909.4.1 Containers. Nitrocellulose shall be stored in closed containers. Barrels shall be stored on end and not more than two tiers high. Barrels or other containers of nitrocellulose shall not be opened in the main storage structure but at the point of use or other location intended for that purpose. 
2909.4.2 Spills. Spilled nitrocellulose shall be promptly wetted with water and disposed of by use or burning in the open at an approved detached location. 
2909.5 Organic peroxide storage. The storage of organic peroxides shall be in accordance with Chapter 62. 
2909.5.1 Size. The size of the package containing organic peroxide shall be selected so that, as nearly as practical, full packages are utilized at one time. Spilled peroxide shall be promptly cleaned up and disposed of as specified by the supplier. 
2909.6 Finished products. Finished products that are flam­mable or combustible liquids shall be stored outside of struc­tures, in a separate structure, or in a room separated from the processing area in accordance with the California Building Code. The storage of finished products shall be in tanks or closed containers in accordance with Chapter 57. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 30 -INDUSTRIAL OVENS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 30 
INDUSTRIAL OVENS 
SECTION 3001 
GENERAL 


3001.1 Scope. This chapter shall apply to the installation and operation of industrial ovens and furnaces. Industrial ovens and furnaces shall comply with the applicable provisions of NFPA 86, the California Mechanical Code and this chapter. The terms "ovens" and "furnaces" are used interchangeably in this chapter. 
3001.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
SECTION 3002 
DEFINITIONS 


3002.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
FURNACE CLASS A. 
FURNACE CLASS B. 
FURNACE CLASS C. 
FURNACE CLASS D. 
SECTION 3003 
LOCATION 


3003.1 Ventilation. Enclosed rooms or basements containing industrial ovens or furnaces shall be provided with combus­tion air in accordance with the California Mechanical Code and with ventilation air in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
3003.2 Exposure. When locating ovens, oven heaters and related equipment, the possibility of fire resulting from over­heating or from the escape of fuel gas or fuel oil and the pos­sibility of damage to the building and injury to persons resulting from explosion shall be considered. 
3003.3 Ignition source. Industrial ovens and furnaces shall be located so as not to pose an ignition hazard to flammable vapors or mists or combustible dusts. 
3003.4 Temperatures. Roofs and floors of ovens shall be insulated and ventilated to prevent temperatures at combusti­ble ceilings and floors from exceeding 160°F (71 °C). 
SECTION 3004 
FUEL PIPING 


3004.1 Fuel-gas piping. Fuel-gas piping serving industrial ovens shall comply with the California Mechanical Code. Piping for other fuel sources shall comply with this section. 
3004.2 Shutoff valves. Each industrial oven or furnace shall be provided with an approved manual fuel shutoff valve in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
3004.2.1 Fuel supply lines. Valves for fuel supply lines shall be located within 6 feet (1829 mm) of the appliance served. 
Exception: When approved and the valve is located in the same general area as the appliance served. 

3004.3 Valve position. The design of manual fuel shutoff valves shall incorporate a permanent feature which visually indicates the open or closed position of the valve. Manual fuel shutoff valves shall not be equipped with removable han­dles or wrenches unless the handle or wrench can only be installed parallel with the fuel line when the valve is in the open position. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE INDUSTRIAL OVENS 
SECTION 3005 
INTERLOCKS 

3005.1 Shut down. Interlocks shall be provided for Class A ovens so that conveyors or sources of flammable or combus­tible materials shall shut down if either the exhaust or recircu­lation air supply fails. 
SECTION 3006 
FIRE PROTECTION 


3006.1 Required protection. Class A and B ovens which contain, or are utilized for the processing of, combustible materials shall be protected by an approved automatic fire­extinguishing system complying with Chapter 9. 
3006.2 Fixed fire-extinguishing systems. Fixed fire-extin­guishing systems shall be provided for Class C or D ovens to protect against such hazards as overheating, spillage of mol­ten salts or metals, quench tanks, ignition of hydraulic oil and escape of fuel. It shall be the user's responsibility to consult with the fire code official concerning the necessary require­ments for such protection. 
3006.3 Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers com­plying with Section 906 shall be provided not closer than 15 feet (4572 mm) or a maximum of 50 feet (15 240 mm). This shall apply to the oven and related equipment. 
SECTION 3007 
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE 


3007.1 Furnace system information. An approved, clearly worded, and prominently displayed safety design data form or manufacturer's nameplate shall be provided stating the safe operating condition for which the furnace system was designed, built, altered or extended. 
3007.2 Oven nameplate. Safety data for Class A solvent atmosphere ovens shall be furnished on the manufacturer's nameplate. The nameplate shall provide the following design data: 
1. 	
The solvent used. 

2. 	
The number of gallons (L) used per batch or per hour of solvent entering the oven. 

3. 	
The required purge time. 

4. 	
The oven operating temperature. 

5. 	
The exhaust blower rating for the number of gallons (L) of solvent per hour or batch at the maximum operating temperature. 


Exception: For low-oxygen ovens, the maximum allow­able oxygen concentration shall be included in place of the exhaust blower ratings. 
3007.3 Training. Operating, maintenance and supervisory personnel shall be thoroughly instructed and trained in the operation of ovens or furnaces. 
3007.4 Equipment maintenance. Equipment shall be main­tained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 31 -TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Califorma Code of Regulatzons (CCR), T1tle 19, D1v1s10n 1 prov1s10ns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 31 
TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 
SECTION 3101 
GENERAL 


3101.1 Scope. Tents and membrane structures shall comply with this chapter. The provisions of Section 3103 are applica­ble only to temporary tents and membrane structures. The provisions of Section 3104 are applicable to temporary and permanent tents and membrane structures. 
These building standards govern the use of tents, awnings or other fabric enclosures, including membrane (air-sup­ported and air-inflated) structures and places ofassemblage, in or under which 10 or more persons may gather for any lawful purpose. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tents, awnings or other fabric enclosures used to cover or enclose private swimming pools and simi­lar facilities on the premises of private one-and two-family dwellings. 

2. 	
Tents used to conduct committal services on the ground ofa cemetery. 

3. 	
Tents, awnings or other fabric enclosures erected and used within a sound stage, or other similar structural enclosure which is equipped with an over­head automatic sprinkler system. 

4. 	
Tensioned membrane roof materials supported by rigid frames or installed on a mast and cable system provided such structures conform to the require­ments of one of the types of construction as described in these regulations. 

5. 	
Fabric structures which are part of mobile homes, recreational vehicles, or commercial coaches gov­erned by the provisions of Division 13, Part 2, Health and Safety Code (Department of Housing and Community Development). 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, §303.(a) and (b)] Scope. 
(a) 
The provisions ofCalifornia Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 2 apply to the sale, offering for sale, manufacture for sale, rental and use of tents within this state. 

(b) 
For building standards relating to tents and membrane structures, see California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 9. 


3101.2 Alternate means ofprotection. When approved by the enforcing agency, exceptions to the provisions ofthese build­ing standards may be permitted, provided alternate means of protection which are at least equal to these regulations in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety are provided. 
3101.3 Labor camps. Tents used in labor camps for the hous­ing of employees shall have tight wooden floors raised at 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
least 4 inches (102 mm) above ground level having base­boards on all sides to a height of at least 6 inches ( 152 mm) or shall have concrete slabs with finished surface at least 4 inches (102 mm) above grade having baseboards on all sides to a height ofat least 6 inches ( 152 mm). 
Electrical installations serving and installed within tents shall comply with the applicable requirements ofthe Califor­nia Electrical Code. 
Tents shall not be considered suitable sleeping places when it is found necessary to provide heating facilities in order to maintain a minimum temperature of 60°F (33.3°C) within such tent during the period ofoccupancy. 
Note: See Section 17008 ofthe Health and Safety Code for definition oflabor camp. 
SECTION 3102 DEFINITIONS 

3102.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­
ter 2: 
AIR-INFLATED STRUCTURE. 
AIR-SUPPORTED STRUCTURE. 
MEMBRANE STRUCTURE. 
TENT. 

< 
SECTION 31 03 
TEMPORARY TENTS AND MEMBRANE 
STRUCTURES 


3103.1 General. All temporary tents and membrane struc­

tures shall comply with this section. 
3103.2 Approval required. Tents and membrane structures 
having an area in excess of 400 square feet (37 m2) shall not 
be erected, operated or maintained for any purpose without 
first obtaining a permit and approval from the fire code offi­
cial. 

Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tents used exclusively for recreational camping pur­poses. 

2. 	
Tents open on all sides which comply with all of the following: 


2.1. Individual tents having a maximum size 	of 700 square feet (65m2). 
2.2. The aggregate area 	of multiple tents placed side by side without a fire break clearance of 12 feet (3658 mm), not exceeding 700 square feet (65 m2) total. 
2.3. A minimum clearance of 12 feet (3658 mm) to all structures and other tents. 

3103.3 Place of assembly. For the purposes of this chapter, a place of assembly shall include a circus, carnival, tent show, theater, skating rink, dance hall or other place of assembly in or under which persons gather for any purpose. 
3103.4 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
3103.5 Use period. Temporary tents, air-supported, air­inflated or tensioned membrane structures shall not be erected for a period of more than 180 days within a 12-month period on a single premises. 
3103.6 Construction documents. A detailed site and floor plan for tents or membrane structures with an occupant load of 50 or more shall be provided with each application for approval. The tent or membrane structure floor plan shall indicate details of the means of egress facilities, seating capacity, arrangement of the seating and location and type of heating and electrical equipment. 
3103.7 Inspections. The entire tent, air-supported, air­inflated or tensioned membrane structure system shall be inspected at regular intervals, but not less than two times per permit use period, by the permittee, owner or agent to deter­mine that the installation is maintained in accordance with this chapter. 
Exception: Permit use periods of less than 30 days. 
3103.7.1 Inspection report. When required by the fire code official, an inspection report shall be provided and shall consist of maintenance, anchors and fabric inspec­tions. 
3103.8 Access, location and parking. Access, location and parking for temporary tents and membrane structures shall be in accordance with this section. 
3103.8.1 Access. Fire apparatus access roads shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 503. 
3103.8.2 Location. Tents or membrane structures shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of lot lines, build­ings, other tents or membrane structures, parked vehicles or internal combustion engines. For the purpose of deter­mining required distances, support ropes and guy wires shall be considered as part of the temporary membrane structure or tent. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Separation distance between membrane struc­tures and tents not used for cooking is not required when the aggregate floor area does not exceed 15,000 square feet (1394 m2). 

2. 	
Membrane structures or tents need not be sepa­rated from buildings when all of the following conditions are met: 


2.1. The aggregate floor area of the membrane structure or tent shall not exceed 10,000 square feet (929 m2). 
2.2. The aggregate floor area of the building and membrane structure or tent shall not exceed the allowable floor area including increases as indicated in the California Building Code. 
2.3. Required 	means of egress are provided for both the building and the membrane structure or tent including travel dis­tances. 
2.4. Fire apparatus access roads are provided in accordance with Section 503. 

3. 	When approved by the enforcing agency, tents may be located in or on permanent buildings pro­vided such use does not constitute an undue haz­ard. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §312] Parking ofVehicles. 
Vehicles necessary to the operation of the establishment, shall be parked at least 20 feet from any tent. No other vehi­cle shall be parked less than 100 feet from any tent except vehicles parked on a public street shall park at least 20 feet from any tent. 
3103.8.3 Location of structures in excess of 15,000 square feet in area. Membrane structures having an area of 15,000 square feet (1394 m2) or more shall be located not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from any other tent or structure as measured from the sidewall of the tent or membrane structure unless joined together by a corridor. 
3103.8.4 Membrane structures on buildings. Membrane structures that are erected on buildings, balconies, decks or other structures shall be regulated as permanent membrane structures in accordance with Section 3102 of the Califor­nia Building Code. 
3103.8.5 Connecting corridors. Tents or membrane structures are allowed to be joined together by means of corridors. Exit doors shall be provided at each end of such corridor. On each side of such corridor and approximately opposite each other, there shall be provided openings not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) wide. 
3103.8.6 Fire break. An unobstructed fire break passage­way or fire road not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) wide and free from guy ropes or other obstructions shall be main­tained on all sides of all tents and membrane structures unless otherwise approved by the fire code official. 
3103.9 Anchorage required. Tents or membrane structures and their appurtenances shall be adequately roped, braced and anchored to withstand the elements of weather and prevent against collapsing. Documentation of structural stability shall be furnished to the fire code official on request. 
3103.10 Temporary air-supported and air-inflated mem­brane structures. Temporary air-supported and air-inflated membrane structures shall be in accordance with Sections 3103.10.1 through 3103.10.4. 
3103.10.1 Door operation. During high winds exceeding 50 miles per hour (22 m/s) or in snow conditions, the use of doors in air-supported structures shall be controlled to avoid excessive air loss. Doors shall not be left open. 
3103.10.2 Fabric envelope design and construction. Air-supported and air-inflated structures shall have the 
TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 

design and construction of the fabric envelope and the method of anchoring in accordance with Architectural Fabric Structures Institute ASI 77. 
3103.10.3 Blowers. An air-supported structure used as a place of assembly shall be furnished with not less than two blowers, each of which has adequate capacity to maintain full inflation pressure with normal leakage. The design of the blower shall be so as to provide integral limiting pres­sure at the design pressure specified by the manufacturer. 
3103.10.4 Auxiliary power. Places of public assembly for more than 200 persons shall be furnished with either a fully automatic auxiliary engine-generator set capable of powering one blower continuously for 4 hours, or a sup­plementary blower powered by an internal combustion engine which shall be automatic in operation. 
3103.11 Seating arrangements. Seating in tents or mem­brane structures shall be in accordance with Chapter 10. 
3103.12 Means of egress. Means of egress for temporary tents and membrane structures shall be in accordance with Sections 3103.12.1 through 3103.12.8. 
3103.12.1 Distribution. Exits shall be spaced at approxi­mately equal intervals around the perimeter of the tent or membrane structure, and shall be located such that all points are 100 feet (30 480 mm) or less from an exit. 
3103.12.2 Number. Tents, or membrane structures or a usable portion thereof shall have at least one exit and not less than the number of exits required by Table 3103 .12.2. The total width of means of egress in inches (mm) shall not be less than the total occupant load served by a means of egress multiplied by 0.2 inches (5 mm) per person. 
3103.12.3 Exit openings from tents. Exit openings from tents shall remain open unless covered by a flame-resistant curtain. The curtain shall comply with the following requirements: 
1. 	Curtains shall be free sliding on a metal support. The support shall be a minimum of 80 inches (2032 mm) above the floor level at the exit. The curtains shall be so arranged that, when open, no part of the curtain obstructs the exit. 
2. 	Curtains shall be of a color, or colors, that contrasts with the color of the tent. 

3103.12.4 Doors. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit travel. To avoid hazardous air and pressure loss in air­supported membrane structures, such doors shall be auto­matic closing against operating pressures. Opening force at the door edge shall not exceed 15 pounds (66 N). 
3103.12.5 Aisle. The width of aisles without fixed seating shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
In areas serving employees only, the minimum aisle width shall be 24 inches (610 mm) but not less than the width required by the number of employees served. 

2. 	
In public areas, smooth-surfaced, unobstructed aisles having a minimum width of not less than 44 inches (1118 mm) shall be provided from seating areas, and aisles shall be progressively increased in width to provide, at all points, not less than 1 foot (305 mm) of aisle width for each 50 persons served by such aisle at that point. 


3103.12.5.1 Arrangement and maintenance. The arrangement of aisles shall be subject to approval by the fire code official and shall be maintained clear at all times during occupancy. 

3103.12.6 Exit signs. Exits shall be clearly marked. Exit signs shall be installed at required exit doorways and where otherwise necessary to indicate clearly the direction of egress when the exit serves an occupant load of 50 or more. 
3103.12.6.1 Exit sign illumination. Exit signs shall be either listed and labeled in accordance with UL 924 as the internally illuminated type and used in accordance with the listing or shall be externally illuminated by luminaires supplied in the following manner: 
1. 	
Two separate circuits, one of which shall be sepa­rate from all other circuits, for occupant loads of 300 or less; or 

2. 	
Two separate sources of power, one of which shall be an approved emergency system, shall be provided when the occupant load exceeds 300. 



TABLE 3103.12.2 
MINIMUM NUMBER OF MEANS OF EGRESS AND MEANS OF 
EGRESS WIDTHS FROM TEMPORARY MEMBRANE STRUCTURES AND TENTS 


OCCUPANT LOAD  MINIMUM NUMBER OF MEANS OF EGRESS  MINIMUM WIDTH OF EACH MEANS OF EGRESS (inches)  MINIMUM WIDTH OF EACH MEANS OF EGRESS (inches)  
Tent  Membrane Structure  
10 to 199  2  72  36  
200 to 499  3  72  72  
500 to 999  4  96  72  
1,000 to 1,999  5  120  96  
2,000 to 2,999  6  120  96  
Over 3,000"  7  120  96  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm. 
a. 	When the occupant load exceeds 3,000, the total width of means of egress (in inches) shall not be less than the total occupant load multiplied by 0.2 inches per person. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 
Emergency systems shall be supplied from stor­age batteries or from the on-site generator set, and the system shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code. The emer­gency system provided shall have a minimum duration of 90 minutes when operated at full design demand. 

3103.12.7 Means of egress illumination. Means of egress shall be illuminated with light having an intensity of not less than 1 footcandle (11 lux) at floor level while the structure is occupied. Fixtures required for means of egress illumination shall be supplied from a separate cir­cuit or source of power. 
3103.12.8 Maintenance of means of egress. The required width of exits, aisles and passageways shall be maintained at all times to a public way. Guy wires, guy ropes and other support members shall not cross a means of egress at a height of less than 8 feet (2438 mm). The surface of means of egress shall be maintained in an approved man­ner. 
SECTION 3104 
TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT TENTS 
AND MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 

3104.1 General. All tents and membrane structures, both temporary and permanent, shall be in accordance with this section. Permanent tents and membrane structures shall also comply with the California Building Code. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §340] Existing Small Tents. 
Existing small tents are exempt from California Code ofReg­ulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 2. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §341] Existing Membrane Structures and Other (Large) Existing Tents. 
Existing membranes ofmembrane structures and large ( 10 or more capacity) existing tents may continue to be used pro­vided evidence ofsatisfactory flame resistance is available to the enforcing authority. Such evidence may be in the form of certification that the fabric passes the standard small scale flame resistance test as set forth in California Code ofRegu­lations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8 regulations or through passage ofeffective field tests. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §321] Abatement ofFire or Panic Hazards. 
Any condition that presents a fire hazard, would contribute to the rapid spread offire, inteifere with the rapid exit ofper­sons from the tents, or inteifere with or delay the extinguish­ment of a fire, shall be immediately corrected as ordered by the enforcing authority. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §315.(a)] Flame Resistance Standards. 
(a) All tent fabrics and all interior decorative fabrics or materials shall be flame resistant in accordance with appropriate standards set forth in California Code ofReg­ulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8. 
Tent tops and sidewalls shall be made either from fabric which has been flame resistant treated with an approved exterior chemical process by an approved application concern, or from inherently flame-resistant fabric approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §332.(a)] Flame Resistance. 
(a) 
All tents manufactured for sale, sold, rented, offered for sale, or used in California shall be made from non­flammable material or one ofthe following flame-resistant fabrics or material approved by the State Fire Marshal: 

(1) 
Fabrics complying with the State Fire Marshal's requirements for flame resistance for exterior use, as set forth in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8, or 

(2) 
Fabrics complying with the flame-resistance requirements set forth in "A Specification for Flame­Resistance Materials Used in Camping Tentage" pub­lished in 1975 by Canvas Products Association Inter­national, hereinafter referred to as CPAI-84. 


Exceptions: 
(1) 
Tents used for committal services at cemeter­ies. 

(2) 
Tents or similar fabric enclosures used within a sound stage or equivalent enclosure equipped with an overhead automatic fire extinguishing system. 



3104.2 Flame propagation performance treatment. Before a permit is granted, the owner or agent shall file with the fire code official a certificate executed by an approved testing laboratory certifying that the tents and membrane structures and their appurtenances; sidewalls, drops and tarpaulins; floor coverings, bunting and combustible decorative materi­als and effects, including sawdust when used on floors or pas­sageways, are flame resistant in accordance with appropriate standards set forth in CCR, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8. < Tops and sidewalls shall be made either from fabric which has been flame resistant treated with an approved exterior chemical process by an approved application concern, or from inherently flame-resistant fabric approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal (see CCR, Title 19, Division 1, Chap­ter 8). 
3104.3 Label. Membrane structures or tents shall have a per­manently affixed label bearing the identification of size and fabric or material type. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §334] Requirements Pertaining to All Tents. 
All tents manufactured for sale in California shall be labeled in accordance with the appropriate provisions of California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 335. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §335.(a) and (b)] Labeling of Tents. 
(a) Each section of top and sidewall in large tents shall have a durable label, permanently affixed, bearing the fol­lowing information: 
(
1) The Seal ofRegistration. 

(2) 
If treated fabric, the name and registration number of the approved application concern and approved chemical used, and the date oftreatment. 

(3) 
If registered fabric, the trade name and registration number ofthe approved fabric, and the date ofproduc­tion. 


In lieu ofattached labels, the required information may be applied directly to the fabric by print, stamp or stencil. 
(b) 
Small tents shall have a permanently affixed label bearing the information in California Code of Regula­tions, Title 19, Division 1, Section 335, subsection (a), or shall comply with the provisions specified in CPAI-84 ( 1975) which reads as follows: 

(
1) Certification. A statement that the materials used in the manufacture of the item meet the flame-resistance requirements of CPAI-84. 

(2) 
Manufacturer Identification. An identification ofthe manufacturer of the item. If the item bears a private label, it shall identify the private labeler and shall also contain a code mark which will permit the seller of the item to identify the manufacturer to the purchaser upon request. 

(
3) Code Number. A number enabling the manufacturer to identify from his records the suppliers and suppliers' lot numbers of the certified materials used in the item. The manufacturer shall also maintain records identify­ing the parties to whom he sold camping tentage. Fur­ther, he shall maintain records identifying items manufactured from lots of certified material. Records shall be maintained for four (4) years. 

(4) 
Warning label. 


WARNING 

KEEP ALL FLAME 
AND HEAT SOURCES 
A WAY FROM THIS 
TENT FABRIC 

This tent is made with flame-resis­
tant fabric which meets CPAI-84 
specifications. It is notfire proof. 
The fabric will burn ifleft in con­
tinuous contact with any flame 
source. 
The application ofany foreign sub­
stance to the tent fabric may render 
the flame resistant properties 
ineffective. 
This warning label or its equivalent must be perma­nently affixed to the tent at one conspicuous location, and must be block letters on a white background. The first paragraph of the body of the label must be placed 
TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 
in a conspicuous location on each carton containing the tent. 

3104.4 Certification. An affidavit or affirmation shall be submitted to the fire code official and a copy retained on the premises on which the tent or air-supported structure is located. The affidavit shall attest to the following information relative to the flame propagation performance criteria of the fabric: 
1. 	
Names and address of the owners of the tent or air-sup­ported structure. 

2. 	
Date the fabric was last treated with flame-retardant solution. 

3. 	
Trade name or kind of chemical used in treatment. 

4. 	
Name of person or firm treating the material. 

5. 	
Name of testing agency and test standard by which the fabric was tested. 



[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §315.(d)] Flame Resistance Standards. 
(d) Certificates of Flame Resistance or other documenta­tion affirming the requirements ofCalifornia Code ofReg­ulations, Title 19, Division 1, Section 315, subsection (a) shall be made available upon request of the enforcement authority. 

3104.5 Combustible materials. Hay, straw, shavings or sim­ilar combustible materials shall not be located within any tent or membrane structure containing an assembly occupancy, except the materials necessary for the daily feeding and care of animals. Sawdust and shavings utilized for a public perfor­mance or exhibit shall not be prohibited provided the sawdust and shavings are kept damp. Combustible materials shall not be permitted under stands or seats at any time. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §315.(b)] Flame Resistance Standards. 
(b) Sawdust, shavings, or other combustible material used on the floor or ground shall be made flame resistant or when approved by the enforcing authority shall be kept adequately damp when tent is occupied. 

[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §326.(b)] Hazard Abatement. 
(b) Hay, straw, trash and other similar flammable mate­rial shall be stored more than 50 feet from any tent except upon approval ofthe enforcing authority. 
Exception: Tents to which the public is not admitted. 

3104.6 Smoking. Smoking shall not be permitted in tents or membrane structures. Approved "No Smoking" signs shall be conspicuously posted in accordance with Section 310. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §316] Smoking Prohibited. 
Smoking is not permitted in any tent and in any adjacent areas where hay or other highly flammable materials are kept. "No Smoking" signs shall be conspicuously posted in all tents open to the public and wherever otherwise specified by the enforcing authority. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3104.7 Open or exposed flame. Open flame or other devices emitting flame, fire or heat or any flammable or combustible liquids, gas, charcoal or other cooking device or any other unapproved devices shall not be permitted inside or located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of the tent or membrane structures while open to the public unless approved by the fire code official. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §317] Fireworks and Open Flames. 
Fireworks, open flame or any device emitting flame or spark shall not be used in or immediately adjacent to any tent while open to the public, except when approved in writing by the enforcing authority. 
3104.8 Fireworks. Fireworks shall not be used within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of tents or membrane structures. 
3104.9 Spot lighting. Spot or effect lighting shall only be by electricity, and all combustible construction located within 6 feet (1829 mm) of such equipment shall be protected with approved noncombustible insulation not less than 91/ 4 inches (235 mm) thick. 
3104.10 Safety film. Motion pictures shall not be displayed in tents or membrane structures unless the motion picture film is safety film. 
3104.11 Clearance. There shall be a minimum clearance of at least 3 feet (914 mm) between the fabric envelope and all contents located inside membrane structures. 
3104.12 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extin­
> 	guishers shall be provided as required by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 2, Article 3, Sec­tion 319. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §319.(a) through (c)] Fire Extinguishers and Other Fire Protection Equipment. 
(a) 
One Class 2-A fire extinguisher shall be provided in every tent having a floor area between 500 square feet and 1,000 square feet plus one 2-A fire extinguisher in each auxiliary adjacent tent. One additional extinguisher shall be provided for each additional 2000 square feet or frac­tion thereof 

(b) 
At least one Class 10 B-C fire extinguisher shall be provided with each generator or transformer. 

(c) 
At least one Class 10 B-C fire extinguisher shall be provided in kitchen, dining areas, and at locations where flammable or combustible liquids or flammable gases are used, stored, or dispensed. 


3104.13 Fire protection equipment. Fire hose lines, water supplies and other auxiliary fire equipment shall be main­tained at the site in such numbers and sizes as required by the fire code official. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §319.(d) and (e)] Fire Extinguishers and Other Fire Protec­tion Equipment. 
(d) Tents having a capacity of1,000 or more persons shall be protected on each of the long sides with fire hose lines of at least 1112-inch internal diameter and of sufficient length to reach either end of the tent. The water supply shall be either from the public water mains or from tanks having a capacity ofnot less than 500 gallons. There shall be at least 65 pounds offlowing pressure at the nozzle of the hose line when a 1/l"inch tip is used. 
(e) The enforcing authority may modify or waive any of the requirements of this section [Title 19, Division 1, Sec­tion 319] and may accept other types offire extinguishing equipment in lieu of that required by Title 19, Division 1 regulations if, in the authorities' opinion, reasonable and adequate protection will be afforded. 
3104.14 Occupant load factors. The occupant load allowed in an assembly structure, or portion thereof, shall be deter­mined in accordance with Chapter 10. 
3104.15 Heating' and cooking equipment. Heating and cooking equipment shall be in accordance with Sections 3104.15.1 through 3104.15.7. 
3104.15.1 Installation. Heating or cooking equipment, tanks, piping, hoses, fittings, valves, tubing and other related components shall be installed as specified in the California Mechanical Code and shall be approved by the fire code official. 
3104.15.2 Venting. Gas, liquid and solid fuel-burning equipment designed to be vented shall be vented to the outside air as specified in the California Mechanical Code. Such vents shall be equipped with approved spark arresters when required. Where vents or flues are used, all portions of the tent or membrane structure shall be not less than 12 inches (305 mm) from the flue or vent. 
3104.15.3 Location. Cooking and heating equipment shall not be located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of exits or com­bustible materials. 
3104.15.4 Operations. Operations such as warming of foods, cooking demonstrations and similar operations that use solid flammables, butane or other similar devices which do not pose an ignition hazard, shall be approved. 
3104.15.5 Cooking tents. Tents with sidewalls or drops where cooking is performed shall be separated from other tents or membrane structures by a minimum of 20 feet (6096 mm). 
3104.15.6 Outdoor cooking. Outdoor cooking that pro­duces sparks or grease-laden vapors shall not be per­formed within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a tent or membrane structure. 
3104.15.7 Electrical heating and cooking equipment. Electrical cooking and heating equipment shall comply with California Electrical Code. 
3104.16 LP-gas. The storage, handling and use of LP-gas and 
LP-gas equipment shall be in accordance with Sections 
3104.16.1 through 3104.16.3. 
3104.16.1 General. LP-gas equipment such as tanks, pip­ing, hoses, fittings, valves, tubing and other related com­ponents shall be approved and in accordance with Chapter 61 and with the California Mechanical Code. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §325] Liquefied Petroleum Gas. 
Liquefied petroleum gas shall not be stored or used in con­nection with any tent unless the storage containers, equip­ment, fittings, appliances, placement, use and operation complies with the provisions of California Code of Regula­tions, Title 8, Article 5, Subchapter 1, Chapter 4. 
3104.16.2 Location of containers. LP-gas containers shall be located outside. Safety release valves shall be pointed away from the tent or membrane structure. 
3104.16.2.1 Containers 500 gallons or less. Portable LP-gas containers with a capacity of 500 gallons (1893 L) or less shall have a minimum separation between the container and structure not less than 10 feet (3048 mm). 
3104.16.2.2 Containers more than 500 gallons. Porta­ble LP-gas containers with a capacity of more than 500 gallons (1893 L) shall have a minimum separation between the container and structures not less than 25 feet (7620 mm). 

3104.16.3 Protection and security. Portable LP-gas con­tainers, piping, valves and fittings which are located out­side and are being used to fuel equipment inside a tent or membrane structure shall be adequately protected to pre­vent tampering, damage by vehicles or other hazards and shall be located in an approved location. Portable LP-gas containers shall be securely fastened in place to prevent unauthorized movement. 
3104.17 Flammable and combustible liquids. The storage of flammable and combustible liquids and the use of flamma­ble-liquid-fueled equipment shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 3104.17.1 through 3104.17.3. 
3104.17.1 Use. Flammable-liquid-fueled equipment shall not be used in tents or membrane structures. 
3104.17.2 Flammable and combustible liquid storage. Flammable and combustible liquids shall be stored outside in an approved manner not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from tents or membrane structures. Storage shall be in accordance with Chapter 57. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §324.(a) and (b)] Flammable and Combustible Liquids. 
(a) 
Liquids having a flash point below 200°F shall not be stored in any tent nor less than 50 feet from any tent. 

(b) 
Flammable or combustible liquids shall be stored and dispensed in accordance with the provisions of the Cali­fornia Fire Code. The enforcing authority may permit lim­ited quantities of flammable or combustible liquids required for display and normal merchandizing. 


3104.17.3 Refueling. Refueling shall be performed in an approved location not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) from tents or membrane structures. 
3104.18 Display of motor vehicles. Liquid-and gas-fueled vehicles and equipment used for display within tents or mem­brane structures shall be in accordance with Sections 3104.18.1 through 3104.18.5.3. 
TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES 

3104.18.1 Batteries. Batteries shall be disconnected in an appropriate manner. 
3104.18.2 Fuel. Vehicles or equipment shall not be fueled or defueled within the tent or membrane structure. 
3104.18.2.1 Quantity limit. Fuel in the fuel tank shall not exceed one-quarter of the tank capacity or 5 gallons (19 L), whichever is less. 
3104.18.2.2 Inspection. Fuel systems shall be inspected for leaks. 
3104.18.2.3 Closure. Fuel tank openings shall be 

locked and sealed to prevent the escape of vapors. 3104.18.3 Location. The location of vehicles or equip­ment shall not obstruct means of egress. 
3104.18.4 Places of assembly. When a compressed natu­ral gas (CNG) or liquefied petroleum gas (LP-gas) pow­ered vehicle is parked inside a place of assembly, all the following conditions shall be met: 
1. 	
The quarter-turn shutoff valve or other shutoff valve on the outlet of the CNG or LP-gas container shall be closed and the engine shall be operated until it stops. Valves shall remain closed while the vehicle is indoors. 

2. 	
The hot lead of the battery shall be disconnected. 

3. 	
Dual-fuel vehicles equipped to operate on gasoline and CNG or LP-gas shall comply with this section and Sections 3104.18.1 through 3104.18.5.3 for gas­oline-powered vehicles. 



3104.18.5 Competitions and demonstrations. Liquid and gas-fueled vehicles and equipment used for competi­tion or demonstration within a tent or membrane structure shall comply with Sections 3104.18.5.1 through 3104.18.5.3. 
3104.18.5.1 Fuel storage. Fuel for vehicles or equip­ment shall be stored in approved containers in an approved location outside of the structure in accor­dance with Section 3104.17 .2. 
3104.18.5.2 Fueling. Refueling shall be performed out­side of the structure in accordance with Section 3104.17.3. 
3104.18.5.3 Spills. Fuel spills shall be cleaned up 

immediately. 3104.19 Separation of generators. Generators and other internal combustion power sources shall be separated from tents or membrane structures by a minimum of 20 feet ( 6096 mm) and shall be isolated from contact with the public by fencing, enclosure or other approved means. 
3104.20 Standby personnel. When, in the opinion of the fire code official, it is essential for public safety in a tent or mem­brane structure used as a place of assembly or any other use where people congregate, because of the number of persons, or the nature of the performance, exhibition, display, contest or activity, the owner, agent or lessee shall employ one or more qualified persons, as required and approved, to remain on duty during the times such places are open to the public, or when such activity is being conducted. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §320] Fire Safety Personnel. 
The owners or operators ofany tent used as a place ofassem­blage shall provide at least one qualified fire safety person in every tent having a capacity of 500 persons and one addi­tional qualified person for each 1,000 additional persons or fraction thereof Such persons shall be on duty in the tent at all times when the tent is open to the public. They shall be proficient in the handling offire extinguishers and equipment and shall be familiar with the fire and panic safety regula­tions. The individual designated under this section shall meet the approval ofthe fire authority having jurisdiction. 
Exception: The enforcing authority may waive or modify the provisions of this section if, in his opinion, public safety will not be jeopardized. 
3104.20.1 Duties. Before each performance or the start of such activity, standby personnel shall keep diligent watch for fires during the time such place is open to the public or such activity is being conducted and take prompt measures for extinguishment of fires that occur and assist in the evacuation of the public from the structure. 
3104.20.2 Crowd managers. There shall be trained crowd managers or crowd manager/supervisors at a ratio of one crowd manager/supervisor for every 250 occupants, as approved. 
3104.21 Combustible vegetation. Combustible vegetation that could create a fire hazard shall be removed from the area occupied by a tent or membrane structure, and from areas within 30 feet (9144 mm) of such structures. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §326.(a)] Hazard Abatement. 
(a) All flammable vegetation within 50 feet of any tent shall be removed. 
3104.22 Combustible waste material. The floor surface inside tents or membrane structures and the grounds outside and within a 30-foot (9144 mm) perimeter shall be kept free of combustible waste and other combustible materials that could create a fire hazard. Such waste shall be stored in approved containers and removed from the premises at least once a day during the period the structure is occupied by the public. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §326.(c)] Hazard Abatement. 
(c) Combustible waste shall not be permitted to accumu­late on the grounds either inside or outside of tents. Such waste shall be stored in approved containers until removed from the premises. 
3104.23 Obstructions. Exits, aisles and passageways shall not be blocked or have their minimum clear width obstructed in any manner by ticket offices, turnstiles, concessions, chairs, equipment, animal chutes, poles or guy ropes, or any­thing whatsoever, nor shall they be blocked by persons for whom no seats are available. 
In occupancies having fixed seating, and on request of the owner or manager, the enforcing agency may permit modifi­cations from the provisions ofthis code to accommodate seat­ing for handicapped persons using mechanical aids such as, but not limited to, walkers and wheelchairs. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 32-HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section Table 3206.2  X  
CHAPTER 32 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 



. 
. . 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
SECTION 3201 
GENERAL 


3201.1 Scope. High-piled combustible storage shall be in accordance with this chapter. In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the following material-specific requirements shall apply: 
1. 	
Aerosols shall be in accordance with Chapter 51. 

2. 	
Flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accor­dance with Chapter 57. 

3. 	
Hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Chap­ter 50. 

4. 
Storage of combustible paper records shall be in accor­dance with NFPA 13. 

5. 	
Storage of combustible fibers shall be in accordance with Chapter 52. 

6. 	
General storage of combustible material shall be in 


accordance with Chapter 3. 3201.2 Permits. A permit shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. 
3201.3 Construction documents. At the time of building permit application for new structures designed to accommo­date high-piled storage or for requesting a change of occu­pancy/use, and at the time of application for a storage permit, plans and specifications shall be submitted for review and approval. In addition to the information required by the Cali­fornia Building Code, the storage permit submittal shall include the information specified in this section. Following approval of the plans, a copy of the approved plans shall be maintained on the premises in an approved location. The plans shall include the following: 
l. 	Floor plan of the building showing locations and dimensions of high-piled storage areas. 

2. 	
Usable storage height for each storage area. 

3. 	
Number of tiers within each rack, if applicable. 

4. 	
Commodity clearance between top of storage and the sprinkler deflector for each storage arrangement. 

5. 	
Aisle dimensions between each storage array. 

6. 	
Maximum pile volume for each storage array. 

7. 	
Location and classification of commodities in accor­dance with Section 3203. 

8. 	
Location of commodities which are banded or encap­sulated. 

9. 	
Location of required fire department access doors. 


10. 	
Type of fire suppression and fire detection systems. 

11. 	
Location of valves controlling the water supply of ceiling and in-rack sprinklers. 

12. 
Type, location and specifications 	of smoke removal and curtain board systems. 

13. 	
Dimension and location of transverse and longitudinal flue spaces. 

14. 	
Additional information regarding required design fea­tures, commodities, storage arrangement and fire pro­tection features within the high-piled storage area shall be provided at the time of permit, when required by the fire code official. 


3201.4 Evacuation plan. When required by the fire code official, an evacuation plan for public accessible areas and a separate set of plans indicating location and width of aisles, location of exits, exit access doors, exit signs, height of stor­age, and locations of hazardous materials shall be submitted at the time of permit application for review and approval. Fol­lowing approval of the plans, a copy of the approved plans shall be maintained on the premises in an approved location. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 3202 
DEFINITIONS 


3202.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
ARRAY. 
ARRAY, CLOSED. 
AUTOMATED RACK STORAGE. 
BIN BOX. 
COMMODITY. 
DRAFT CURTAIN. 
EARLY SUPPRESSION FAST-RESPONSE (ESFR) SPRINKLER. 
EXPANDED PLASTIC. 
EXTRA-HIGH-RACK COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE. 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE. 
HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREA. 
LONGITUDINAL FLUE SPACE. 
MANUAL STOCKING METHODS. 
MECHANICAL STOCKING METHODS. 
SHELF STORAGE. 
SOLID SHELVING. 
TRANSVERSE FLUE SPACE. 
SECTION 3203 
COMMODITY CLASSIFICATION 


3203.1 Classification of commodities. Commodities shall be classified as Class I, II, III, IV or high hazard in accordance with this section. Materials listed within each commodity classification are assumed to be unmodified for improved combustibility characteristics. Use of flame-retarding modifi­ers or the physical form of the material could change the clas­sification. See Section 3203.7 for classification of Group A, B and C plastics. 
3203.2 Class I commodities. Class I commodities are essen­tially noncombustible products on wooden or nonexpanded polyethylene solid deck pallets, in ordinary corrugated car­tons with or without single-thickness dividers, or in ordinary paper wrappings with or without pallets. Class I commodities are allowed to contain a limited amount of Group A plastics in accordance with Section 3203.7.4. Examples of Class I commodities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Alcoholic beverages not exceeding 20-percent alcohol 
Appliances noncombustible, electrical 
Cement in bags 
Ceramics 
Dairy products in nonwax-coated containers (excluding 
bottles) 
Dry insecticides 
Foods in noncombustible containers 
Fresh fruits and vegetables in nonplastic trays or containers 
Frozen foods Glass 
Glycol in metal cans 
Gypsum board 
Inert materials, bagged 
Insulation, noncombustible 
Noncombustible liquids in plastic containers having less 
than a 5-gallon (19 L) capacity 
Noncombustible metal products 
3203.3 Class II commodities. Class II commodities are Class I products in slatted wooden crates, solid wooden boxes, multiple-thickness paperboard cartons or equivalent combustible packaging material with or without pallets. Class II commodities are allowed to contain a limited amount of Group A plastics in accordance with Section 3203.7.4. Exam­ples of Class II commodities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Alcoholic beverages not exceeding 20-percent alcohol, in 
combustible containers 
Foods in combustible containers 
Incandescent or fluorescent light bulbs in cartons 
Thinly coated fine wire on reels or in cartons 
3203.4 Class III commodities. Class III commodities are commodities of wood, paper, natural fiber cloth, or Group C plastics or products thereof, with or without pallets. Products are allowed to contain limited amounts of Group A or B plas­tics, such as metal bicycles with plastic handles, pedals, seats and tires. Group A plastics shall be limited in accordance with Section 3203.7.4. Examples of Class III commodities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Aerosol, Level 1 (see Chapter 28) 
Combustible fiberboard 
Cork, baled 
Feed, bagged 
Fertilizers, bagged 
Food in plastic containers 
Furniture: wood, natural fiber, upholstered, nonplastic, 

wood or metal with plastic-padded and covered arm­
rests 
Glycol in combustible containers not exceeding 25 percent 
Lubricating or hydraulic fluid in metal cans 
Lumber 
Mattresses, excluding foam rubber and foam plastics 
Noncombustible liquids in plastic containers having a 
capacity of more than 5 gallons ( 19 L) 
Paints, oil base, in metal cans 
Paper, waste, baled 
Paper and pulp, horizontal storage, or vertical storage that 
is banded or protected with approved wrap 
Paper in cardboard boxes 
Pillows, excluding foam rubber and foam plastics 
Plastic-coated paper food containers 
Plywood 
Rags, baled 
Rugs, without foam backing 
Sugar, bagged 
Wood, baled 
Wood doors, frames and cabinets 
Yarns of natural fiber and viscose 3203.5 Class IV commodities. Class IV commodities are Class I, II or III products containing Group A plastics in ordi­nary corrugated cartons and Class I, II and III products with Group A plastic packaging, with or without pallets. Group B plastics and free-flowing Group A plastics are also included in this class. The total amount of nonfree-flowing Group A plastics shall be in accordance with Section 3203.7.4. Exam­ples of Class IV commodities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Aerosol, Level2 (see Chapter 51) 
Alcoholic beverages, exceeding 20-percent but less than 

80-percent alcohol, in cans or bottles in cartons Clothing, synthetic or nonviscose Combustible metal products (solid) Furniture, plastic upholstered Furniture, wood or metal with plastic covering and padding Glycol in combustible containers (greater than 25 percent 
and less than 50 percent) 
Linoleum products 
Paints, oil base in combustible containers 
Pharmaceutical, alcoholic elixirs, tonics, etc. 
Rugs, foam back 
Shingles, asphalt 
Thread or yarn, synthetic or nonviscose 


3203.6 High-hazard commodities. High-hazard commodi­ties are high-hazard products presenting special fire hazards beyond those of Class I, II, III or IV. Group A plastics not otherwise classified are included in this class. Examples of high-hazard commodities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Aerosol, Level3 (see Chapter 51) Alcoholic beverages, exceeding 80-percent alcohol, in bottles or cartons Commodities of any class in plastic containers in carousel 
storage Flammable solids (except solid combustible metals) Glycol in combustible containers (50 percent or greater) Lacquers, which dry by solvent evaporation, in metal cans 
or cartons Lubricating or hydraulic fluid in plastic containers Mattresses, foam rubber or foam plastics Pallets and flats which are idle combustible Paper and pulp, rolled, in vertical storage which is 
unbanded or not protected with an approved wrap 
Paper, asphalt, rolled, horizontal storage 
Paper, asphalt, rolled, vertical storage 
Pillows, foam rubber and foam plastics 
Pyroxylin 
Rubber tires 
Vegetable oil and butter in plastic containers 


3203.7 Classification of plastics. Plastics shall be designated as Group A, B or C in accordance with Sections 3203.7.1 through 3203.7.4. 
3203.7.1 Group A plastics. Group A plastics are plastic materials having a heat of combustion that is much higher than that of ordinary combustibles, and a burning rate higher than that of Group B plastics. Examples of Group A plastics include, but are not limited to, the following: 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 
ABS (acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene copolymer) 
Acetal (polyformaldehyde) 
Acrylic (polymethyl methacrylate) 
Butyl rubber 
EPDM (ethylene propylene rubber) 
FRP (fiberglass-reinforced polyester) 
Natural rubber (expanded) 
Nitrile rubber (acrylonitrile butadiene rubber) 
PET or PETE (polyethylene terephthalate) 
Polybutadiene 
Poly carbonate 
Polyester elastomer 
Polyethylene 
Polypropylene 
Polystyrene (expanded and unexpanded) 
Polyurethane (expanded and unexpanded) 
PVC (polyvinyl chloride greater than 15-percent plasti­
cized, e.g., coated fabric unsupported film) 
SAN (styrene acrylonitrile) 
SBR (styrene butadiene rubber) 

3203.7.2 Group B plastics. Group B plastics are plastic materials having a heat of combustion and a burning rate higher than that of ordinary combustibles, but not as high as those of Group A plastics. Examples of Group B plas­tics include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Cellulosics (cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyr­
ate, ethyl cellulose) 
Chloroprene rubber 
Fluoroplastics (ECTFE, ethylene-chlorotrifluoroethyl­
ene copolymer; ETFE, ethylene-tetrafluoroethylene 
copolymer; FEP, fluorinated ethylene-propylene 
copolymer) 
Natural rubber (nonexpanded) 
Nylon (Nylon 6, Nylon 6/6) 
PVC (polyvinyl chloride greater than 5-percent, but not 
exceeding 15-percent plasticized) 
Silicone rubber 

3203.7.3 Group C plastics. Group C plastics are plastic materials having a heat of combustion and a burning rate similar to those of ordinary combustibles. Examples of Group C plastics include, but are not limited to, the fol­lowing: 
Fluoroplastics (PCTFE, polychlorotrifluoroethylene; 
PTFE, polytetrafluoroethylene) 
Melamine (melamine formaldehyde) 
Phenol 
PVC (polyvinyl chloride, rigid or plasticized less than 5 
percent, e.g., pipe, pipe fittings) 
PVDC (polyvinylidene chloride) 
PVDF (polyvinylidene fluoride) 
PVF (polyvinyl fluoride) 
Urea (urea formaldehyde) 

3203.7.4 Limited quantities of Group A plastics in mixed commodities. Figure 3203.7.4 shall be used to determine the quantity of Group A plastics allowed to be stored in a package or carton or on a pallet without increasing the commodity classification. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
30 



CLASSIFY AS HIGH-HAZARD COMMODITY  

CLASSIFY AS CLASS IV COMMODITY  

CLASSIFY AS CLASS I, II, OR Ill COMMODITY I 	 

9 
<.:> 
25

0 
""U 
m

1­
:;o

(j) 
<( 
0 

_J 
m

0.. 
z 
-l

0 w 20 
6 OJ 

0 
-<

z 
~ 
m

~ 
G)

><
w 
I 

LL 
-l 

0 15 
0
,

w 
~ 
m 

~ 
><

_J 
~

0 
z

> 
0

>-10 
3 m

co 
01­

""U

z 
r

w 
)>

0 
(/)

0::: 
-l

w 
0

0.. 
a.
5 
0 
0 

0 5 10 15 20 25 
PERCENT BY WEIGHT OF UN EXPANDED PLASTICd 
a. 
This figure is intended to determine the commodity classification of a mixed commodity in a package, carton or on a pallet where plastics are involved. 

b. 
The following is an example of how to apply the figure: A package containing a Class III commodity has 12-percent Group A expanded plastic by volume. The weight of the unexpanded Group A plastic is I 0 percent. This commodity is classified as a Class IV commodity. If the weight of the unexpanded plastic is increased to 14 percent, the classification changes to a high-hazard commodity. 

c. 	
Percent b volume = Volume of plastic in p~llet !~ad y Total volume ofpallet load, mcludmg pallet 

d. 	
Percent b wei ht = Volume of plastic in p~llet load y g Total volume of pallet load, mcludmg pallet 


FIGURE 3203.7.4 
MIXED COMMODITIES"· b 

SECTION 3204 
DESIGNATION OF HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREAS 

3204.1 General. High-piled storage areas, and portions of high-piled storage areas intended for storage of a different commodity class than adjacent areas, shall be designed and specifically designated to contain Class I, Class II, Class III, Class IV or high-hazard commodities. The designation of a high-piled combustible storage area, or portion thereof intended for storage of a different commodity class, shall be based on the highest hazard commodity class stored except as provided in Section 3204.2. 
3204.2 Designation based on engineering analysis. The designation of a high-piled combustible storage area, or por­tion thereof, is allowed to be based on a lower hazard class than that of the highest class of commodity stored when a limited quantity of the higher hazard commodity has been demonstrated by engineering analysis to be adequately pro­tected by the automatic sprinkler system provided. The engi­neering analysis shall consider the ability of the sprinkler system to deliver the higher density required by the higher hazard commodity. The higher density shall be based on the actual storage height of the pile or rack and the minimum allowable design area for sprinkler operation as set forth in the density/area figures provided in NFPA 13. The contigu­ous area occupied by the higher hazard commodity shall not exceed 120 square feet (11 m2) and additional areas of higher hazard commodity shall be separated from other such areas by 25 feet (7620 mm) or more. The sprinkler system shall be capable of delivering the higher density over a minimum area of 900 square feet (84 m2) for wet pipe systems and 1,200 square feet (Ill m2) for dry pipe systems. The shape of the design area shall be in accordance with Section 903. 
SECTION 3205 
HOUSEKEEPING AND MAINTENANCE 


3205.1 Rack structures. The structural integrity of racks shall be maintained. 
3205.2 Ignition sources. Clearance from ignition sources shall be provided in accordance with Section 305. 
3205.3 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited. Approved "No Smoking" signs shall be conspicuously posted in accor­dance with Section 310. 
3205.4 Aisle maintenance. When restocking is not being conducted, aisles shall be kept clear of storage, waste mate­rial and debris. Fire department access doors, aisles and exit doors shall not be obstructed. During restocking operations using manual stocking methods, a minimum unobstructed aisle width of 24 inches (610 mm) shall be maintained in 48­inch (1219 mm) or smaller aisles, and a minimum unob­structed aisle width of one-half of the required aisle width shall be maintained in aisles greater than 48 inches (1219 mm). During mechanical stocking operations, a minimum unobstructed aisle width of 44 inches ( 1118 mm) shall be maintained in accordance with Section 3206.9. 
3205.5 Pile dimension and height limitations. Pile dimen­sions and height limitations shall comply with Section 3207.3. 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 

3205.6 Designation of storage heights. Where required by the fire code official, a visual method of indicating the maxi­mum allowable storage height shall be provided. 
3205.7 Arrays. Arrays shall comply with Section 3207.4. 
3205.8 Flue spaces. Flue spaces shall comply with Section 3208.3. 
SECTION 3206 
GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION 
AND LIFE SAFETY FEATURES 


3206.1 General. Fire protection and life safety features for high-piled storage areas shall be in accordance with Sections 3206.2 through 3206.1 0. 
3206.2 Extent and type of protection. Where required by Table 3206.2, fire detection systems, smoke and heat removal, draft curtains and automatic sprinkler design densi­ties shall extend the lesser of 15 feet (4572 mm) beyond the high-piled storage area or to a permanent partition. Where portions of high-piled storage areas have different fire protec­tion requirements because of commodity, method of storage or storage height, the fire protection features required by Table 3206.2 within this area shall be based on the most restrictive design requirements. 
3206.3 Separation of high-piled storage areas. High-piled storage areas shall be separated from other portions of the building where required by Sections 3206.3.1 through 3206.3.2.2. 
3206.3.1 Separation from other uses. Mixed occupan­cies shall be separated in accordance with the California Building Code. 
3206.3.2 Multiple high-piled storage areas. Multiple high-piled storage areas shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 3206.3.2.1 or 3206.3.2.2. 
3206.3.2.1 Aggregate area. The aggregate of all high­piled storage areas within a building shall be used for the application of Table 3206.2 unless such areas are separated from each other by 1-hour fire barriers con­structed in accordance with Section 707 the California Building Code. Openings in such fire barriers shall be protected by opening protectives having a 1-hour fire protection rating. 
3206.3.2.2 Multiclass high-piled storage areas. High­piled storage areas classified as Class I through IV not separated from high-piled storage areas classified as high hazard shall utilize the aggregate of all high-piled storage areas as high hazard for the purposes of the application of Table 3206.2. To be considered as sepa­rated, 1-hour fire barriers shall be constructed in accor­dance with Section 707 of the California Building Code. Openings in such fire barriers shall be protected by opening protectives having a 1-hour fire protection rating. 

Exception: As provided for in Section 3204.2. 3206.4 Automatic sprinklers. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided in accordance with Sections 3207, 3208 and 3209. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 3206.2 GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 

COMMODITY CLASS  SIZE OF HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREA" (square feet) (see Sections 3206.2 and 3206.4)  ALL STORAGE AREAS (See Sections 3206, 3207 and 3208)"  SOLID-PILED STORAGE, SHELF STORAGE AND PALLETIZED STORAGE (see Section 3207.3)  
Automatic fire-extinguishing system (see Section 3206.4)  Fire detection system (see Section 3206.5)  Building access (see Section 3206.6)  Smoke and heat removal (see Section 3206.7)  Draft curtains (see Section 3206.7)  Maximum pile dimension• (feet)  Maximum permissible storage heightd (feet)  Maximum pile volume (cubic feet)  
I-IV  0-500  Not Required"  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  Not Required  Not Required  Not Required  
501-2,500  Not Required"  Yesi  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  100  40  100,000  
2,501-12,000 Public accessible  Yes  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  100  40  400,000  
2,501-12,000 Nonpublic accessible (Option 1)  Yes  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  100  40  400,000  
2,501-12,000 Nonpublic accessible (Option 2)  Not Required"  Yes  Yes  Yesi  Yesi  100  30f  200,000  
12,001-20,000  Yes  Not Required  Yes  Yesi  Not Required  100  40  400,000  
20,001-500,000  Yes  Not Required  Yes  Yesi  Not Required  100  40  400,000  
Greater than 500,000g  Yes  Not Required  Yes  Yesi  Not Required  100  40  400,000  
High hazard  0-500  Not Required"  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  50  Not Required  Not Required  
501-2,500 Public accessible  Yes  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  50  30  75,000  
501-2,500 Nonpublic accessible (Option 1)  Yes  Not Required  Not Required•  Not Required  Not Required  50  30  75,000  
501-2,500 Nonpublic accessible (Option 2)  Not Required"  Yes  Yes  Yesi  Yesi  50  20  50,000  
2,501-300,000  Yes  Not Required  Yes  Yesi  Not Required  50  30  75,000  
300,00 1-500,000g, h  Yes  Not Required  Yes  Yesi  Not Required  50  30  75,000  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3 , 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2• 
a. 	
When automatic sprinklers are required for reasons other than those in Chapter 32, the portion of the sprinkler system protecting the high-piled storage area shall be designed and installed in accordance with Sections 3207 and 3208. 

b. 
For aisles, see Section 3206.9. 

c. 
Piles shall be separated by aisles complying with Section 3206.9. 

d. 	
For storage in excess of the height indicated, special fire protection shall be provided in accordance with Note g when required by the fire code official. See also Chapters 51 and 57 for special limitations for aerosols and flammable and combustible liquids, respectively. 

e. 
Section 503 shall apply for fire apparatus access. 

f. 	
For storage exceeding 30 feet in height, Option 1 shall be used. 

g. 	
Special fire protection provisions including, but not limited to, fire protection of exposed steel columns; increased sprinkler density; additional in-rack sprinklers, without associated reductions in ceiling sprinkler density; or additional fire department hose connections shall be provided when required by the fire code official. 

h. 	
High-piled storage areas shall not exceed 500,000 square feet. A 2-hour fire wall constructed in accordance with Section 706 the California Building Code shall be used to divide high-piled storage exceeding 500,000 square feet in area. 

i. 	
Not required when an automatic fire-extinguishing system is designed and installed to protect the high-piled storage area in accordance with Sections 3207 and 3208. 

j. 	
Not required when storage areas with an exit access travel distance of 250 feet (76 200 mm) or less are protected by early suppression fast-response (ESFR) sprinkler systems installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 


3206.5 Fire detection. Where fire detection is required by Table 3206.2, an approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed throughout the high-piled storage area. The system shall be monitored and be in accordance with Section 
907. 
3206.6 Building access. Where building access is required by Table 3206.2, fire apparatus access roads in accordance with Section 503 shall be provided within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of all portions of the exterior walls of buildings used for high-piled storage. 
Exception: Where fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of topography, railways, waterways, non-negotiable grades or other similar conditions, the fire code official is authorized to require additional fire protec­tion. 
3206.6.1 Access doors. Where building access is required by Table 3206.2, fire department access doors shall be provided in accordance with this section. Access doors shall be accessible without the use of a ladder. 
3206.6.1.1 Number of doors required. A minimum of one access door shall be provided in each 100 lineal feet (30 480 mm), or fraction thereof, of the exterior walls that face required fire apparatus access roads. The required access doors shall be distributed such that the lineal distance between adjacent access doors does not exceed 100 feet (30 480 mm). 
3206.6.1.2 Door size and type. Access doors shall not be less than 3 feet (914 mm) in width and 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) in height. Roll-up doors shall not be used unless approved. 
3206.6.1.3 Locking devices. Only approved locking 

devices shall be used. 3206.7 Smoke and heat removal. Where smoke and heat removal are required by Table 3206.2, smoke and heat vents shall be provided in accordance with Section 910. Where draft curtains are required by Table 3206.2, they shall be pro­vided in accordance with Section 910.3.5. 
3206.8 Fire department hose connections. Where exit pas­sageways are required by the California Building Code for egress, a Class I standpipe system shall be provided in accor­dance with Section 905. 
3206.9 Aisles. Aisles providing access to exits and fire department access doors shall be provided in high-piled stor­age areas exceeding 500 square feet ( 46 m2), in accordance with Sections 3206.9.1 through 3206.9.3. Aisles separating storage piles or racks shall comply with NFPA 13. Aisles shall also comply with Chapter 10. 
Exception: Where aisles are precluded by rack storage systems, alternate methods of access and protection are allowed when approved. 
3206.9.1 Width. Aisle width shall be in accordance with Sections 3206.9.1.1 and 3206.9.1.2. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Aisles crossing rack structures or storage piles, which are used only for employee access, shall be a minimum of 24 inches (610 mm) wide. 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 
2. 	Aisles separating shelves classified as shelf stor­age shall be a minimum of 30 inches (762 mm) wide. 
3206.9.1.1 Sprinklered buildings. Aisles in sprin­klered buildings shall be a minimum of 44 inches ( 1118 mm) wide. Aisles shall be a minimum of 96 inches (2438 mm) wide in high-piled storage areas exceeding 2,500 square feet (232 m2) in area, that are accessible to the public and designated to contain high-hazard com­modities. 
Exception: Aisles in high-piled storage areas exceeding 2,500 square feet (232 m2) in area, that are accessible to the public and designated to con­tain high-hazard commodities, are protected by a sprinkler system designed for multiple-row racks of high-hazard commodities shall be a minimum of 44 inches (1118 mm) wide. 
Aisles shall be a minimum of 96 inches (2438 mm) wide in areas accessible to the public where mechanical stocking methods are used. 
3206.9.1.2 Nonsprinklered buildings. Aisles in non­sprinklered buildings shall be a minimum of 96 inches (2438 mm) wide. 

3206.9.2 Clear height. The required aisle width shall extend from floor to ceiling. Rack structural supports and catwalks are allowed to cross aisles at a minimum height of 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) above the finished floor level, provided that such supports do not interfere with fire department hose stream trajectory. 
3206.9.3 Dead ends. Dead-end aisles shall be in accor­dance with Chapter 10. 
3206.10 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extin­guishers shall be provided in accordance with Section 906. 
SECTION 3207 
SOLID-PILED AND SHELF STORAGE 


3207.1 General. Shelf storage and storage in solid piles, solid piles on pallets and bin box storage in bin boxes not exceed­ing 5 feet (1524 mm) in any dimension, shall be in accor­dance with Sections 3206 and this section. 
3207.2 Fire protection. Where automatic sprinklers are required by Table 3206.2, an approved automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the building or to 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code. Openings in such fire barriers shall be protected by opening protectives having a 1-hour fire protection rating. The design and installation of the automatic sprinkler system and other applicable fire protection shall be in accordance with the California Building Code and NFP A 
13. 
3207.2.1 Shelf storage. Shelf storage greater than 12 feet (3658 mm) but less than 15 feet (4572 mm) in height shall be in accordance with the fire protection requirements set forth in NFPA 13. Shelf storage 15 feet (4572 mm) or more in height shall be protected in an approved manner with special fire protection, such as in-rack sprinklers. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3207.3 Pile dimension and height limitations. Pile dimen­sions, the maximum permissible storage height and pile vol­ume shall be in accordance with Table 3206.2. 
3207.4 Array. Where an automatic sprinkler system design utilizes protection based on a closed array, array clearances shall be provided and maintained as specified by the standard used. 
SECTION 3208 
RACK STORAGE 


3208.1 General. Rack storage shall be in accordance with Section 3206 and this section. Bin boxes exceeding 5 feet (1524 mm) in any dimension shall be regulated as rack stor­age. 
3208.2 Fire protection. Where automatic sprinklers are required by Table 3206.2, an approved automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the building or to 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code. Openings in such fire barriers shall be protected by opening protectives having a 1-hour fire protection rating. The design and installation of the automatic sprinkler system and other applicable fire protection shall be in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 and the California Building Code. 
3208.2.1 Plastic pallets and shelves. Storage on plastic pallets or plastic shelves shall be protected by approved specially engineered fire protection systems. 
Exception: Plastic pallets listed and labeled in accor­dance with UL 2335 shall be treated as wood pallets for determining required sprinkler protection. 
3208.2.2 Racks with solid shelving. Racks with solid shelving having an area greater than 32 square feet (3 m2), measured between approved flue spaces at all four edges of the shelf, shall be in accordance with this section. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Racks with mesh, grated, slatted or similar shelves having uniform openings not more than 6 inches (152 mm) apart, comprised of at least 50 percent of the overall shelf area, and with approved flue spaces are allowed to be treated as racks without solid shelves. 

2. 	
Racks used for the storage of combustible paper records, with solid shelving, shall be in accor­dance with NFPA 13. 


3208.2.2.1 Fire protection. Fire protection for racks with solid shelving shall be in accordance with NFP A 
13. 3208.3 Flue spaces. Flue spaces shall be provided in accor­
dance with Table 3208.3. Required flue spaces shall be main­tained. 
3208.3.1 Flue space protection. Where required by the fire code official, flue spaces required by Table 3208.3, in single-, double-or multiple-row rack storage installations shall be equipped with approved devices to protect the required flue spaces. Such devices shall not be removed or modified. 
3208.4 Column protection. Steel building columns shall be protected in accordance with NFPA 13. 
3208.5 Extra-high-rack storage systems. Approval of the fire code official shall be obtained prior to installing extra­high-rack combustible storage. 
TABLE 3208.3 
REQUIRED FLUE SPACES FOR RACK STORAGE 


RACK CONFIGURATION  AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER PROTECTION  SPRINKLER AT THE CEILING WITH OR WITHOUT MINIMUM IN-RACK SPRINKLERS  IN-RACK SPRINKLERS AT EVERY TIER  NONSPRINKLERED  
:s; 25 feet  > 25 feet  Any height  Any height 
Storage height  Option 1  Option 2  
Single-row rack  Transverse flue space  Sizeb  3 inches  Not Applicable  3 inches  Not Required  Not Required  
Vertically aligned  Not Required  Not Applicable  Yes  Not Applicable  Not Required  
Longitudinal flue space  Not Required  Not Applicable  Not Required  Not Required  Not Required  
Double-row rack  Transverse flue space  Sizeb  6 inches"  3 inches  3 inches  Not Required  Not Required  
Vertically aligned  Not Required  Not Required  Yes  Not Applicable  Not Required  
Longitudinal flue space  Not Required  6 inches  6 inches  Not Required  Not Required  
Multi-row rack  Transverse flue space  Sizeb  6 inches  Not Applicable  6 inches  Not Required  Not Required  
Vertically aligned  Not Required  Not Applicable  Yes  Not Applicable  Not Required  
Longitudinal flue space  Not Required  Not Applicable  Not Required  Not Required  Not Required  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 
Three-inch transverse flue spaces shall be provided at least every 10 feet where ESFR sprinkler protection is provided. 

b. 
Random variations are allowed, provided that the configuration does not obstruct water penetration. 


HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE 
3208.5.1 Fire protection. Buildings with extra-high-rack combustible storage shall be protected with a specially engineered automatic sprinkler system. Extra-high-rack combustible storage shall be provided with additional spe­cial fire protection, such as separation from other build­ings and additional built-in fire protection features and fire department access, when required by the fire code official. 
SECTION 3209 
AUTOMATED STORAGE 


3209.1 General. Automated storage shall be in accordance with this section. 
3209.2 Automatic sprinklers. Where automatic sprinklers are required by Table 3206.2, the building shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1. 
3209.3 Carousel storage. High-piled storage areas having greater than 500 square feet (46m2) of carousel storage shall be provided with automatic shutdown in accordance with one of the following: 
1. 	
An automatic smoke detection system installed in accordance with Section 907, with coverage extending 15 feet (4575 mm) in all directions beyond unenclosed carousel storage systems and which sounds a local alarm at the operator's station and stops the carousel storage system upon the activation of a single detector. 

2. 	
An automatic smoke detection system installed in accordance with Section 907 and within enclosed car­ousel storage systems, which sounds a local alarm at the operator's station and stops the carousel storage system upon the activation of a single detector. 

3. 	
A single dead-man-type control switch that allows the operation of the carousel storage system only when the operator is present. The switch shall be in the same room as the carousel storage system and located to pro­vide for observation of the carousel system. 



3209.4 Automated rack storage. High-piled storage areas with automated rack storage shall be provided with a manu­ally activated emergency shutdown switch for use by emer­gency personnel. The switch shall be clearly identified and shall be in a location approved by the fire chief. 
SECTION 321 0 
SPECIAL TV STORAGE 


3210.1 General. Records storage facilities used for the rack or shelf storage of combustible paper records greater than 12 feet (3658 mm) in height shall be in accordance with Sections 3206 and 3208 and NFPA 13. Palletized storage of records shall be in accordance with Section 3207. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 33 -FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSIOns that are found m the Californza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 33 
FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION 
SECTION 3301 
GENERAL 


3301.1 Scope. This chapter shall apply to structures in the course of construction, alteration or demolition, including those in underground locations. Compliance with NFP A 241 is required for items not specifically addressed herein. 
3301.2 Purpose. This chapter prescribes minimum safe­guards for construction, alteration and demolition operations to provide reasonable safety to life and property from fire during such operations. 
SECTION 3302 
DEFINITIONS 


3302.1 Terms defined in Chapter 2. Words and terms used in this chapter and defined in Chapter 2 shall have the mean­ings ascribed to them as defined therein. 
SECTION 3303 
TEMPORARY HEATING EQUIPMENT 


3303.1 Listed. Temporary heating devices shall be listed and labeled in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. Installation, maintenance and use of temporary heating devices shall be in accordance with the terms of the listing. 
3303.2 Oil-fired heaters. Oil-fired heaters shall comply with Section 603. 
3303.3 LP-gas heaters. Fuel supplies for liquefied-petro­leum gas-fired heaters shall comply with Chapter 61 and the 
California Mechanical Code. 
3303.4 Refueling. Refueling operations for liquid-fueled equipment or appliances shall be conducted in accordance with Section 5705. The equipment or appliance shall be allowed to cool prior to refueling. 
3303.5 Installation. Clearance to combustibles from tempo­rary heating devices shall be maintained in accordance with the labeled equipment. When in operation, temporary heating devices shall be fixed in place and protected from damage, dislodgement or overturning in accordance with the manufac­turer's instructions. 
3303.6 Supervision. The use of temporary heating devices shall be supervised and maintained only by competent per­sonnel. 
SECTION 3304 
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE 


3304.1 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited except in approved areas. Signs shall be posted in accordance with Sec­tion 310. In approved areas where smoking is permitted, approved ashtrays shall be provided in accordance with Sec­tion 310. 
3304.2 Waste disposal. Combustible debris shall not be accumulated within buildings. Combustible debris, rubbish and waste material shall be removed from buildings at the end of each shift of work. Combustible debris, rubbish and waste material shall not be disposed of by burning on the site unless approved. 
3304.3 Open burning. Open burning shall comply with Sec­tion 307. 
3304.4 Spontaneous ignition. Materials susceptible to spon­taneous ignition, such as oily rags, shall be stored in a listed disposal container. 
3304.5 Fire watch. When required by the fire code official for building demolition, or building construction during working hours that is hazardous in nature, qualified personnel shall be provided to serve as an on-site fire watch. Fire watch personnel shall be provided with at least one approved means for notifi­cation of the fire department and their sole duty shall be to per­form constant patrols and watch for the occunence of fire. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3304.6 Cutting and welding. Operations involving the use of cutting and welding shall be done in accordance with Chapter 35. 
3304.7 Electrical. Temporary wiring for electrical power and lighting installations used in connection with the construc­tion, alteration or demolition of buildings, structures, equip­ment or similar activities shall comply with California Electrical Code. 
SECTION 3305 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 

3305.1 Storage of flammable and combustible liquids. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Section 5704. 
3305.2 Class I and Class II liquids. The storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids at construc­tion sites shall be in accordance with Section 5706.2. Ventila­tion shall be provided for operations involving the application of materials containing flammable solvents. 
3305.3 Housekeeping. Flammable and combustible liquid storage areas shall be maintained clear of combustible vege­tation and waste materials. Such storage areas shall not be used for the storage of combustible materials. 
3305.4 Precautions against fire. Sources of ignition and smoking shall be prohibited in flammable and combustible liquid storage areas. Signs shall be posted in accordance with Section 310. 
3305.5 Handling at point of final use. Class I and II liquids shall be kept in approved safety containers. 
3305.6 Leakage and spills. Leaking vessels shall be immedi­ately repaired or taken out of service and spills shall be cleaned up and disposed of properly. 
SECTION 3306 
FLAMMABLE GASES 


3306.1 Storage and handling. The storage, use and handling of flammable gases shall comply with Chapter 58. 
SECTION 3307 
EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS 


3307.1 Storage and handling. Explosive materials shall be stored, used and handled in accordance with Chapter 56. 
3307.2 Supervision. Blasting operations shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 56. 
3307.3 Demolition using explosives. Approved fire hoses for use by demolition personnel shall be maintained at the demolition site whenever explosives are used for demolition. Such fire hoses shall be connected to an approved water sup­ply and shall be capable of being brought to bear on post-det­onation fires anywhere on the site of the demolition operation. 
SECTION 3308 
OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR FIRE PROTECTION 


3308.1 Program superintendent. The owner shall designate a person to be the fire prevention program superintendent who shall be responsible for the fire prevention program and ensure that it is carried out through completion of the project. The fire prevention program superintendent shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter and other provisions as necessary to secure the intent of this chapter. Where guard service is provided, the superintendent shall be responsible for the guard service. 
3308.2 Prefire plans. The fire prevention program superin­tendent shall develop and maintain an approved prefire plan in cooperation with the fire chief. The fire chief and the fire code official shall be notified of changes affecting the utiliza­tion of information contained in such prefire plans. 
3308.3 Training. Training of responsible personnel in the use of fire protection equipment shall be the responsibility of the fire prevention program superintendent. 
3308.4 Fire protection devices. The fire prevention program superintendent shall determine that all fire protection equip­ment is maintained and serviced in accordance with this code. The quantity and type of fire protection equipment shall be approved. 
3308.5 Hot work operations. The fire prevention program superintendent shall be responsible for supervising the permit system for hot work operations in accordance with Chapter 
35. 

3308.6 Impairment of fire protection systems. Impairments to any fire protection system shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 901. 
3308.7 Temporary covering of fire protection devices. Coverings placed on or over fire protection devices to protect them from damage during construction processes shall be immediately removed upon the completion of the construc­tion processes in the room or area in which the devices are installed. 
SECTION 3309 
FIRE REPORTING 


3309.1 Emergency telephone. Readily accessible emer­gency telephone facilities shall be provided in an approved location at the construction site. The street address of the con­struction site and the emergency telephone number of the fire department shall be posted adjacent to the telephone. 
SECTION 331 0 
ACCESS FOR FIRE FIGHTING 


3310.1 Required access. Approved vehicle access for fire fighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall be provided to within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of temporary or permanent fire department connec­tions. Vehicle access shall be provided by either temporary or permanent roads, capable of supporting vehicle loading under 
FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION 

all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be maintained 
until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available. 
3310.2 Key boxes. Key boxes shall be provided as required 
by Chapter 5. 
SECTION 3311 
MEANS OF EGRESS 


[B] 3311.1 Stairways required. Where a building has been constructed to a building height of 50 feet (15 240 mm) or four stories, or where an existing building exceeding 50 feet (15 240 mm) in building height is altered, at least one tempo­rary lighted stairway shall be provided unless one or more of the permanent stairways are erected as the construction pro­gresses. 
3311.2 Maintenance. Required means of egress shall be 
maintained during construction and demolition, remodeling 
or alterations and additions to any building. 
Exception: Approved temporary means of egress systems 
and facilities. 
SECTION 3312 
WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION 


3312.1 When required. An approved water supply for fire protection, either temporary or permanent, shall be made available as soon as combustible material arrives on the site. 
SECTION 3313 
STANDPIPES 


3313.1 Where required. In buildings required to have stand­pipes by Section 905.3.1, not less than one standpipe shall be provided for use during construction. Such standpipes shall be installed when the progress of construction is not more than . 40 feet (12 192 mm) in height above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access. Such standpipe shall be provided with fire department hose connections at accessible locations adjacent to usable stairs. Such standpipes shall be extended as construction progresses to within one floor of the highest point of construction having secured decking or flooring. 
3313.2 Buildings being demolished. Where a building is being demolished and a standpipe is existing within such a building, such standpipe shall be maintained in an operable condition so as to be available for use by the fire department. Such standpipe shall be demolished with the building but shall not be demolished more than one floor below the floor being demolished. 
3313.3 Detailed requirements. Standpipes shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Section 905. 
Exception: Standpipes shall be either temporary or per­manent in nature, and with or without a water supply, pro­vided that such standpipes comply with the requirements of Section 905 as to capacity, outlets and materials. 
SECTION 3314 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM 


3314.1 Completion before occupancy. In buildings where an automatic sprinkler system is required by this code or the California Building Code, it shall be unlawful to occupy any portion of a building or structure until the automatic sprinkler system installation has been tested and approved, except as provided in Section 105.3.4. 
3314.2 Operation of valves. Operation of sprinkler control valves shall be allowed only by properly authorized personnel and shall be accompanied by notification of duly designated parties. When the sprinkler protection is being regularly turned off and on to facilitate connection of newly completed segments, the sprinkler control valves shall be checked at the end of each work period to ascertain that protection is in ser­vice. 
SECTION 3315 
PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS 


3315.1 Where required. Structures under construction, alter­ation or demolition shall be provided with not less than one approved portable fire extinguisher in accordance with Sec­tion 906 and sized for not less than ordinary hazard as follows: 
1. 	
At each stairway on all floor levels where combustible materials have accumulated. 

2. 	
In every storage and construction shed. 

3. 	
Additional portable fire extinguishers shall be provided where special hazards exist including, but not limited to, the storage and use of flammable and combustible liquids. 


SECTION 3316 
MOTORIZED CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT 


3316.1 Conditions of use. Internal-combustion-powered construction equipment shall be used in accordance with all of the following conditions: 
1. 	
Equipment shall be located so that exhausts do not dis­charge against combustible material. 

2. 	
Exhausts shall be piped to the outside of the building. 

3. 	
Equipment shall not be refueled while in operation. 

4. 	
Fuel for equipment shall be stored in an approved area outside of the building. 


SECTION 3317 
SAFEGUARDING ROOFING OPERATIONS 


3317.1 General. Roofing operations utilizing heat-producing systems or other ignition sources shall be conducted in accor­dance with Sections 3317.2 and 3317.3 and Chapter 35. 
3317.2 Asphalt and tar kettles. Asphalt and tar kettles shall be operated in accordance with Section 303. 
3317.3 Fire extinguishers for roofing operations. Fire extin­guishers shall comply with Section 906. There shall be not less than one multipurpose portable fire extinguisher with a mini­mum 3-A 40-B :C rating on the roof being covered or repaired. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 34-TIRE REBUILDING AND TIRE STORAGE 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISion 1 prov!Slons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 34 
TIRE REBUILDING AND TIRE STORAGE 
SECTION 3401 
GENERAL 


3401.1 Scope. Tire rebuilding plants, tire storage [including tire derived products as defined in Public Resources Code, Section 42805.7(a)] and tire byproduct facilities shall comply with this chapter, other applicable requirements of this code and NFPA 13. Tire storage in buildings shall also comply with Chapter 32. 
3401.2 Permit required. Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. 
SECTION 3402 
DEFINITIONS 


3402.1 Terms defined in Chapter 2. Words and terms used in this chapter and defined in Chapter 2 shall have the mean­ings ascribed to them as defined therein. 
SECTION 3403 
TIRE REBUILDING 


3403.1 Construction. Tire rebuilding plants shall comply with the requirements of the California Building Code, as to construction, separation from other buildings or other por­tions of the same building, and protection. 
3403.2 Location. Buffing operations shall be located in a room separated from the remainder of the building housing the tire rebuilding or tire recapping operations by a 1-hour fire barrier. 
Exception: Buffing operations are not required to be sepa­rated where all of the following conditions are met: 
1. 	
Buffing operations are equipped with an approved continuous automatic water-spray system directed at the point of cutting action; 

2. 	
Buffing machines are connected to particle-collect­ing systems providing a minimum air movement of 1,500 cubic feet per minute (cfm) (0.71 m3/s) in vol­ume and 4,500 feet per minute (fpm) (23 rn/s) in-line velocity; and 

3. 	
The collecting system shall discharge the rubber particles to an approved outdoor noncombustible or fire-resistant container, which is emptied at frequent intervals to prevent overflow. 



3403.3 Cleaning. The buffing area shall be cleaned at fre­quent intervals to prevent the accumulation of rubber parti­cles. 
3403.4 Spray rooms and booths. Each spray room or spray booth where flammable or combustible solvents are applied, shall comply with Chapter 24. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 3404 	storage piles shall not exceed 6 feet ( 1829 mm) in 
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE 

3404.1 Open burning. Open burning is prohibited in tire storage yards. 
3404.2 Sources of heat. Open flame, cutting, welding or 
> 	heating devices blow torches or highly flammable materials including, but not limited to, inner tubes are prohibited within 40 feet ofa waste tire pile. 
3404.3 Smoking prohibited. Smoking is prohibited in tire storage yards, except in designated areas. 
3404.4 Power lines. Tire storage piles shall not be located beneath electrical power lines having a voltage in excess of 750 volts or that supply power to fire emergency systems. 
3404.5 Fire safety plan. The owner or individual in charge of the tire storage yard shall be required to prepare and sub­mit to the fire code official a fire safety plan for review and approval. The fire safety plan shall include provisions for fire department vehicle access. At least one copy of the fire safety plan shall be prominently posted and maintained at the stor­age yard. 
3404.6 Telephone number. The telephone number of the fire department and location of the nearest telephone shall be posted conspicuously in attended locations. 
SECTION 3405 OUTDOOR STORAGE 

3405.1 Individual piles. Tire storage shall be restricted to individual piles not exceeding 5,000 square feet (464.5 m2) of continuous area. Pile width shall not exceed 50 feet. Piles shall not exceed 50,000 cubic feet (1416 m3) in volume or 10 feet (3048 mm) in height. 
3405.2 Separation of piles. Individual tire storage piles shall be separated from other piles by a clear space of at least 40 feet (12 192 mm). 
3405.3 Distance between piles of other stored products. 
Tire storage piles shall be separated by a clear space of at least 40 feet (12 192 mm) from piles of other stored product. 
3405.4 Distance from lot lines and buildings. Tire storage piles shall be located at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) from lot lines and buildings. 
1. 	
Tire storage piles containing less than 500 tires shall be permitted to be located no closer than 10 feet (3048 mm) from lot lines or from buildings. Tire storage piles shall not exceed 6 feet ( 1829 mm) in height when within 20 feet of any property line, building, or perimeter fencing. Side slopes shall not exceed 60 degrees. When approved by the fire code official in accordance with Section 1.11.2.4, distances of less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from lot lines or from buildings may be approved. 

2. 	
When approved by the fire code official in accordance with Section 1.11.2.4, exempted facilities defined in Public Resources Code, Sections 42808(c) and 42831 and used tires as defined in Section 42806.5, tire stor­age piles shall be permitted to be located no closer than 10 feet ( 3048 mm) from lot lines orfrom buildings. Tire 


height when within 20 feet of any property line or perimeter fencing. Side slopes shall not exceed 60 degrees. 
3. 	
When approved by the fire code official in accordance with Section 1.11.2.4, "minor waste tire facilities" as defined in Public Resources Code, Section 42808, tire storage piles shall be permitted to be located no closer than 10 feet ( 3048 mm) from lot lines or 50 feet ( 15 240 mm) from buildings. Tire storage piles shall not exceed 6 feet ( 1829 mm) in height when within 20 feet of any property line or perimeter fencing. Side slopes shall not exceed 60 degrees. 

4. 	
Existing "minor waste tire storage facilities" as defined in Public Resources Code, Section 42808, legally permitted prior to January 1, 2011, shall be permitted to maintain tire storage piles located no closer than 10 feet ( 3048 mm) from lot lines or 50 feet (15 240 mm) from buildings. Tire storage piles shall not exceed 6 feet ( 1829 mm) in height when within 20 feet (6096 mm) of any property line or perimeter fenc­ing. Side slopes shall not exceed 60 degrees. 


3405.5 Fire breaks. Storage yards shall be maintained free from combustible ground vegetation for a distance of 40 feet (12 192 mm) from the stored material to grass and weeds; and for a distance of 100 feet (30 480 mm) from the stored prod­uct to brush and forested areas. 
3405.6 Volume more than 150,000 cubic feet. Where the bulk volume of stored product is more than 150,000 cubic feet (4248 m3), storage arrangement shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Individual storage piles shall comply with size and sep­aration requirements in Sections 3405.1 through 3405.5. 

2. 	
Adjacent storage piles shall be considered a group, and the aggregate volume of storage piles in a group shall not exceed 150,000 cubic feet (4248 m3). 


Separation between groups shall be at least 75 feet (22 860 mm)wide. 
3405.7 Location of storage. Outdoor waste tire storage shall not be located in any ofthe following: 
1. 	Under bridges, elevated trestles, elevated roadways or elevated railroads. 
2. 	
In any area where they may be subjected to immersion in water during a 100-year storm, unless the operator demonstrates that the facility will be designed and operated so as to prevent waste tires from migrating off-site. 

3. 	
On suifaces with grades or other physical features that will inteifere with fire-fighting equipment or personnel unless mitigating measures have been approved in writing by the local fire authority or a fire safety engi­neer registered by the State of California. Measures established by a fire safety engineer shall be subject to approval by the local fire authority. 


3405.8 Rim removal. Waste tires stored on rims shall be stored separate from other waste tires. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TIRE REBUILDING AND TIRE STORAGE 

3405.9 Pyrolytic oil runoff. The facility shall be designed and constructed to provide protection to bodies ofwater from runoffofpyrolytic oil resulting from a potential tire fire. 
SECTION 3406 FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS 

3406.1 Required access. New tire storage yards shall be pro­vided with fire apparatus access roads in accordance with > Section 503 and Section 3406.2. 
3406.2 Location. Fire apparatus access roads shall be located within all pile clearances identified in Section 3405.4 and within all fire breaks required in Section 3405.5. Access roadways shall be within 150 feet (45 720 mm) of any point in the storage yard where storage piles are located, at least 20 feet (6096 mm) from any storage pile. 
SECTION 3407 FENCING 

3407.1 Where required. Where the bulk volume of stored material is more than 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3), a firmly anchored fence or other approved method of security that controls unauthorized access to the storage yard shall sur­round the storage yard. 
3407.2 Construction. The fence shall be constructed of approved materials and shall be at least 6 feet (1829 mm) high and provided with gates at least 20 feet (6096 mm) wide. 
3407.3 Locking. All gates to the storage yard shall be locked when the storage yard is not staffed. 
3407.4 Unobstructed. Gateways shall be kept clear of obstructions and be fully openab1e at all times. 
SECTION 3408 FIRE PROTECTION 

3408.1 Water supply. A public or private fire protection water supply shall be provided in accordance with Section 507 and shall be capable ofdelivering at least 1,000 gallons per minute (gpm)for a duration ofat least three hours and at least 2,000 gpm for a duration of at least three hours if the sum of altered plus whole waste tires exceeds 10,000. The water supply shall be arranged such that any part of the stor­age yard can be reached by using not more than 500 feet (152 m) of hose. 
3408.2 Fire extinguishers. Buildings or structures shall be provided with portable fire extinguishers in accordance with Section 906. Fuel-fired vehicles operating in the storage yard shall be equipped with a minimum A:40-B:C-rated portable 
> fire extinguisher. 
SECTION 3409 
INDOOR STORAGE ARRANGEMENT 


3409.1 Pile dimensions. Where tires are stored on-tread, the dimension of the pile in the direction of the wheel hole shall not be more than 50 feet (15 240 mm). Tires stored adjacent to or along one wall shall not extend more than 25 feet (7620 mm) from that wall. Other piles shall not be more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) in width. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 35-WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1 2 HCD  1/AC  AC ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), T!tle 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSIOns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 35 
WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK 
SECTION 3501 
GENERAL 


3501.1 Scope. Welding, cutting, open torches and other hot work operations and equipment shall comply with this chap­ter. 
3501.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
3501.3 Restricted areas. Hot work shall only be conducted in areas designed or authorized for that purpose by the per­sonnel responsible for a Hot Work Program. Hot work shall not be conducted in the following areas unless approval has been obtained from the fire code official: 
l. 	Areas where the sprinkler system is impaired. 
2. 	
Areas where there exists the potential of an explosive atmosphere, such as locations where flammable gases, liquids or vapors are present. 

3. 	
Areas with readily ignitable materials, such as storage of large quantities of bulk sulfur, baled paper, cotton, lint, dust or loose combustible materials. 

4. 
On board ships at dock or ships under construction or repair. 

5. 	
At other locations as specified by the fire code official. 



3501.4 Cylinders and containers. Compressed gas cylinders and fuel containers shall comply with this chapter and Chap­ter 53. 
3501.5 Design and installation of oxygen-fuel gas systems. An oxygen-fuel gas system with two or more manifolded cyl­inders of oxygen shall be in accordance with NFP A 51. 
SECTION 3502 
DEFINITIONS 


3502.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
HOT WORK. 
HOT WORK AREA. 
HOT WORK EQUIPMENT. 
HOT WORK PERMITS. 
HOT WORK PROGRAM. 
RESPONSIBLE PERSON. 
TORCH-APPLIED ROOF SYSTEM. 
SECTION 3503 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


3503.1 General. Hot work conditions and operations shall comply with this chapter. 
3503.2 Temporary and fixed hot work areas. Temporary and fixed hot work areas shall comply with this section. 
3503.3 Hot work program permit. Hot work permits, issued by an approved responsible person under a hot work program, shall be available for review by the fire code official at the time the work is conducted and for 48 hours after work is complete. 
3503.4 Qualifications of operators. A permit for hot work operations shall not be issued unless the individuals in charge of performing such operations are capable of performing such operations safely. Demonstration of a working knowledge of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute acceptable evi­dence of compliance with this requirement. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3503.5 Records. The individual responsible for the hot work area shall maintain "prework check" reports in accordance with Section 3504.3.1. Such reports shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of 48 hours after work is com­plete. 
3503.6 Signage. Visible hazard identification signs shall be provided where required by Chapter 50. Where the hot work area is accessible to persons other than the operator of the hot work equipment, conspicuous signs shall be posted to warn others before they enter the hot work area. Such signs shall display the following warning: 
CAUTION 
HOT WORK IN PROGRESS 
STAY CLEAR 
SECTION 3504 
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 


3504.1 Protection of combustibles. Protection of combusti­bles shall be in accordance with Sections 3504.1.1 through 3504.1.9. 
3504.1.1 Combustibles. Hot work areas shall not contain combustibles or shall be provided with appropriate shield­ing to prevent sparks, slag or heat from igniting exposed combustibles. 
3504.1.2 Openings. Openings or cracks in walls, floors, ducts or shafts within the hot work area shall be tightly covered to prevent the passage of sparks to adjacent com­bustible areas, or shielded by metal fire-resistant guards, or curtains shall be provided to prevent passage of sparks or slag. 
3504.1.3 Housekeeping. Floors shall be kept clean within the hot work area. 
3504.1.4 Conveyor systems. Conveyor systems that are capable of carrying sparks to distant combustibles shall be shielded or shut down. 
3504.1.5 Partitions. Partitions segregating hot work areas from other areas of the building shall be noncombustible. In fixed hot work areas, the partitions shall be securely connected to the floor such that no gap exists between the floor and the partition. Partitions shall prevent the passage of sparks, slag, and heat from the hot work area. 
3504.1.6 Floors. Fixed hot work areas shall have floors with noncombustible surfaces. 
3504.1.7 Precautions in hot work. Hot work shall not be performed on containers or equipment that contains or has contained flammable liquids, gases or solids until the con­tainers and equipment have been thoroughly cleaned, inerted or purged; except that "hot tapping" shall be allowed on tanks and pipe lines when such work is to be conducted by approved personnel. 
3504.1.8 Sprinkler protection. Automatic sprinkler pro­tection shall not be shut off while hot work is performed. Where hot work is performed close to automatic sprin­klers, noncombustible barriers or damp cloth guards shall shield the individual sprinkler heads and shall be removed when the work is completed. If the work extends over sev­eral days, the shields shall be removed at the end of each workday. The fire code official shall approve hot work where sprinkler protection is impaired. 
3504.1.9 Fire detection systems. Approved special pre­cautions shall be taken to avoid accidental operation of automatic fire detection systems. 
3504.2 Fire watch. Fire watches shall be established and conducted in accordance with Sections 3504.2.1 through 3504.2.6. 
3504.2.1 When required. A fire watch shall be provided during hot work activities and shall continue for a mini­mum of 30 minutes after the conclusion of the work. The fire code official, or the responsible manager under a hot work program, is authorized to extend the fire watch based on the hazards or work being performed. 
Exception: Where the hot work area has no fire haz­ards or combustible exposures. 
3504.2.2 Location. The fire watch shall include the entire hot work area. Hot work conducted in areas with vertical or horizontal fire exposures that are not observable by a single individual shall have additional personnel assigned to fire watches to ensure that exposed areas are monitored. 
3504.2.3 Duties. Individuals designated to fire watch duty shall have fire-extinguishing equipment readily available and shall be trained in the use of such equipment. Individ­uals assigned to fire watch duty shall be responsible for extinguishing spot fires and communicating an alarm. 
3504.2.4 Fire training. The individuals responsible for performing the hot work and individuals responsible for providing the fire watch shall be trained in the use of por­table fire extinguishers. 
3504.2.5 Fire hoses. Where hoselines are required, they shall be connected, charged and ready for operation. 
3504.2.6 Fire extinguisher. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 and with a minimum 2-A:20-B:C rating shall be readily accessible within 30 feet (9144 mm) of the location where hot work is performed. 
3504.3 Area reviews. Before hot work is permitted and at least once per day while the permit is in effect, the area shall be inspected by the individual responsible for authmizing hot work operations to ensure that it is a fire safe area. Informa­tion shown on the permit shall be verified prior to signing the permit in accordance with Section 105.6. 
3504.3.1 Pre-hot-work check. A pre-hot-work check shall be conducted prior to work to ensure that all equip­ment is safe and hazards are recognized and protected. A report of the check shall be kept at the work site during the work and available upon request. The pre-hot-work check shall determine all of the following: 
1. 	
Hot work equipment to be used shall be in satisfac­tory operating condition and in good repair. 

2. 	
Hot work site is clear of combustibles or combusti­bles are protected. 


3. 	
Exposed construction is of noncombustible materi­als or, if combustible, then protected. 

4. 	
Openings are protected. 

5. 	
Floors are kept clean. 

6. 	
No exposed combustibles are located on the oppo­site side of partitions, walls, ceilings or floors. 

7. 	
Fire watches, where required, are assigned. 

8. 	
Approved actions have been taken to prevent acci­dental activation of suppression and detection equip­ment in accordance with Sections 3504.1.8 and 3504.1.9. 

9. 	
Fire extinguishers and fire hoses (where provided) are operable and available. 


SECTION 3505 
GAS WELDING AND CUTTING 


3505.1 General. Devices or attachments mixing air or oxy­gen with combustible gases prior to consumption, except at the burner or in a standard torch or blow pipe, shall not be allowed unless approved. 
3505.2 Cylinder and container storage, handling and use. Storage, handling and use of compressed gas cylinders, con­tainers and tanks shall be in accordance with this section and Chapter 53. 
3505.2.1 Cylinders connected for use. The storage or use of a single cylinder of oxygen and a single cylinder of fuel gas located on a cart shall be allowed without requiring the cylinders to be separated in accordance with Section 5003.9.8 or 5003.10.3.6 when the cylinders are connected to regulators, ready for service, equipped with apparatus designed for cutting or welding and all of the following: 
1. 	
Carts shall be kept away from the cutting or welding operation in accordance with Section 3505.5 or fire­resistant shields shall be provided. 

2. 	
Cylinders shall be secured to the cart to resist move­ment. 

3. 	
Carts shall be in accordance with Section 5003.10.3. 

4. 	
Cylinder valves not having fixed hand wheels shall have keys, handles or nonadjustable wrenches on valve stems while the cylinders are in service. 

5. 	
Cylinder valve outlet connections shall conform to the requirements of CGA V -1. 

6. 	
Cylinder valves shall be closed when work is fin­ished. 

7. 	
Cylinder valves shall be closed before moving the cart. 


3505.2.1.1 Individual cart separation. Individual carts shall be separated from each other in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 

3505.3 Precautions. Cylinders, valves, regulators, hose and other apparatus and fittings for oxygen shall be kept free from oil or grease. Oxygen cylinders, apparatus and fittings shall 
WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK 

not be handled with oily hands, oily gloves, or greasy tools or equipment. 
3505.4 Acetylene gas. Acetylene gas shall not be piped except in approved cylinder manifolds and cylinder manifold connections, or utilized at a pressure exceeding 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (103 kPa) unless dissolved in a suit­able solvent in cylinders manufactured in accordance with DOTn 49 CFR Part 178. Acetylene gas shall not be brought in contact with unalloyed copper, except in a blowpipe or torch. 
3505.5 Remote locations. Oxygen and fuel-gas cylinders and acetylene generators shall be located away from the hot work area to prevent such cylinders or generators from being heated by radiation from heated materials, sparks or slag, or misdirection of the torch flame. 
3505.6 Cylinders shutoff. The torch valve shall be closed and the gas supply to the torch completely shut off when gas welding or cutting operations are discontinued for a period of 1 hour or more. 
3505.7 Prohibited operation. Welding or cutting work shall not be held or supported on compressed gas cylinders or con­tainers. 
3505.8 Tests. Tests for leaks in piping systems and equip­ment shall be made with soapy water. The use of flames shall be prohibited for leak testing. 
SECTION 3506 
ELECTRIC ARC HOT WORK 


3506.1 General. The frame or case of electric hot work machines, except internal-combustion-engine-driven machines, shall be grounded. Ground connections shall be mechanically strong and electrically adequate for the required current. 
3506.2 Return circuits. Welding current return circuits from the work to the machine shall have proper electrical contact at joints. The electrical contact shall be periodically inspected. 
3506.3 Disconnecting. Electrodes shall be removed from the holders when electric arc welding or cutting is discontinued for any period of 1 hour or more. The holders shall be located to prevent accidental contact and the machines shall be dis­connected from the power source. 
3506.4 Emergency disconnect. A switch or circuit breaker shall be provided so that fixed electric welders and control equipment can be disconnected from the supply circuit. The disconnect shall be installed in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
3506.5 Damaged cable. Damaged cable shall be removed from service until properly repaired or replaced. 
SECTION 3507 
CALCIUM CARBIDE SYSTEMS 


3507.1 Calcium carbide storage. Storage and handling of calcium carbide shall comply with Chapter 50 of this code and Chapter 9 of NFP A 51. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 3508 
ACETYLENE GENERATORS 


3508.1 Use of acetylene generators. The use of acetylene generators shall comply with this section and Chapter 6 of NFPA 51A. 
3508.2 Portable generators. The minimum volume of rooms containing portable generators shall be 35 times the total gas­generating capacity per charge of all generators in the room. The gas-generating capacity in cubic feet per charge shall be assumed to be 4.5 times the weight of carbide per charge in pounds. The minimum ceiling height of rooms containing generators shall be 10 feet (3048 mm). An acetylene genera­tor shall not be moved by derrick, crane or hoist while charged. 
3508.3 Protection against freezing. Generators shall be located where water will not freeze. Common salt such as sodium chloride or other corrosive chemicals shall not be uti­lized for protection against freezing. 
SECTION 3509 
PIPING MANIFOLDS AND HOSE 
SYSTEMS FOR FUEL GASES AND OXYGEN 

3509.1 General. The use of piping manifolds and hose sys­tems shall be in accordance with Section 3509.2 through 3509.7, Chapter 53 and Chapter 5 ofNFPA 51. 
3509.2 Protection. Piping shall be protected against physical damage. 
3509.3 Signage. Signage shall be provided for piping and hose systems as follows: 
1. 	
Above-ground piping systems shall be marked in accordance with ASME A13.1. 

2. 	
Station outlets shall be marked to indicate their intended usage. 

3. 	
Signs shall be posted, indicating clearly the location 


and identity of section shutoff valves. 3509.4 Manifolding of cylinders. Oxygen manifolds shall not be located in an acetylene generator room. Oxygen mani­folds shall be located at least 20 feet (6096 mm) away from combustible material such as oil or grease, and gas cylinders containing flammable gases, unless the gas cylinders are sep­arated by a fire partition. 
3509.5 Identification of manifolds. Signs shall be posted for oxygen manifolds with service pressures not exceeding 200 psig (1379 kPa). Such signs shall include the words: 
LOW-PRESSURE MANIFOLD 

DO NOT CONNECT HIGH-PRESSURE CYLINDERS 
MAXIMUM PRESSURE 250 PSIG 

3509.6 Clamps. Hose connections shall be clamped or other­wise securely fastened. 
3509.7 Inspection. Hoses shall be inspected frequently for leaks, bums, wear, loose connections or other defects render­ing the hose unfit for service. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 36-MARINAS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER36 
MARINAS 
SECTION 3601 
SCOPE 


3601.1 Scope. Marina facilities shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
3601.2 Plans and approvals. Plans for marina fire protection facilities shall be approved prior to installation. The work shall be subject to final inspection and approval after installa­tion. 
SECTION 3602 
DEFINITIONS 


3602.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
FLOAT. 
MARINA. 
PIER. 
VESSEL. 
WHARF. 
SECTION 3603 
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS 


3603.1 Combustible debris. Combustible debris and rubbish shall not be deposited or accumulated on land beneath marina structures, piers or wharves. 
3603.2 Sources of ignition. Open-flame devices used for lighting or decoration on the exterior of a vessel, float, pier or wharf shall be approved. 
3603.3 Flammable or combustible liquid spills. Spills of flammable or combustible liquids at or upon the water shall be reported immediately to the fire department or jurisdic­tional authorities. 
3603.4 Rubbish containers. Metal containers with tight-fit­ting or self-closing lids shall be provided for the temporary storage of combustible trash or rubbish. 
3603.5 Electrical equipment. Electrical equipment shall be installed and used in accordance with its listing, Section 605 of this code and Chapter 5 of NFP A 303 as required for wet, damp and hazardous locations. 
3603.6 Berthing and storage. Berthing and storage shall be in accordance with Chapter 7 of NFPA 303. 
3603.7 Slip identification. Slips and mooring spaces shall be individually identified by an approved numeric or alphabetic designator. Space designators shall be posted at the space. Signs indicating the space designators located on finger piers and floats shall be posted at the base of all piers, finger piers, floats and finger floats. 
SECTION 3604 
FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT 


3604.1 General. Piers, marinas and wharves with facilities for mooring or servicing five or more vessels, and marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be equipped with fire protection equipment in accordance with Sections 3604.2 through 3604.6. 
3604.2 Standpipes. Marinas and boatyards shall be equipped throughout with standpipe systems in accordance with NFPA 
303. Systems shall be provided with hose connections located such that no point on the marina pier or float system exceeds 150 feet (15 240 mm) from a standpipe hose connection. 
3604.2.1 Identification of standpipe outlets. Standpipe hose connection locations shall be clearly identified by a flag or other approved means designed to be readily visi­ble from the pier accessing the float system. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3604.3 Access and water supply. Piers and wharves shall be provided with fire apparatus access roads and water-supply systems with on-site fire hydrants when required by the fire code official. Such roads and water systems shall be provided and maintained in accordance with Sections 503 and 507. 
3604.4 Portable fire extinguishers. One portable fire extin­guisher of the ordinary (moderate) hazard type shall be pro­vided at each required standpipe hose connection. Additional portable fire extinguishers, suitable for the hazards involved, shall be provided and maintained in accordance with Section 
906. 
3604.5 Communications. A telephone not requiring a coin to operate or other approved, clearly identified means to notify the fire department shall be provided on the site in a location approved by the fire code official. 
3604.6 Emergency operations staging areas. Space shall be provided on all float systems for the staging of emergency equipment. Emergency operation staging areas shall provide a minimum of 4 feet wide by 10 feet long (1219 mm by 3048 mm) clear area exclusive of walkways and shall be located at each standpipe hose connection. Emergency operation stag­ing areas shall be provided with a curb or barrier having a minimum height of 4 inches (102 mm) and maximum space between the bottom edge and the surface of the staging area of 2 inches (51 mm) on the outboard sides of the staging area. 
An approved sign reading: FIRE EQUIPMENT STAG­ING AREA-KEEP CLEAR shall be provided at each stag­ing area. 
SECTION 3605 MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES 
3605.1 Fuel dispensing. Marine motor fuel-dispensing facili­ties shall be in accordance with Chapter 23. 
CHAPTERS 37 through 47 
RESERVED 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 48-MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCTION STUDIO 
SOUND STAGES, APPROVED PRODUCTION FACILITIES AND PRODUCTION LOCATIONS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISion 1 provisiOns that are found m the Califonua Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 48 
MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCTION STUDIO 
SOUND STAGES, APPROVED PRODUCTION FACILITIES AND 
PRODUCTION LOCATIONS 

SECTION 4801 
GENERAL 


4801.1 Scope. Production studios, sound stages, approved production facilities and production locations used by the entertainment industry for the purpose of motion picture, television and commercial production shall be in accordance with the provisions ofthis article. 
4801.2 Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish minimum requirements that will provide a reasonable degree of safety from fire, panic and explosion. Buildings and struc­tures defined herein shall be in accordance with this article. 
4801.3 DEF1N1TIONS. 
APPROVED FIRE WATCH. Individuals provided with at least one approved means for notification of the fire depart­ment and their only duty shall be to peiform constant patrols ofthe protected premises and keep watch for fires. 
APPROVED PRODUCTION FACILITY. An existing build­ing, or portion of a building, or a group of buildings altered for use by the entertainment industry for the purpose of motion picture, television and commercial production. 
PLATFORM. Part of a set, which is a floor or horizontal surface raised above stage floor level. 
PRODUCTION LOCATION. Any area or facility outside a production studio, approved production facility or sound stage used by the entertainment industry for the purpose of motion picture, television and commercial production. 
PRODUCTION STUDIO. A building, portion of a building, or a group of buildings designed and constructed for use by the entertainment industry for the purpose of motion picture, television and commercial production. 
SET. A structure built or assembled for the purpose ofmotion picture, television and commercial production. 
SOUND STAGE. A building or portion ofa building usually insulated from outside noise and natural light for use by the entertainment industry for the purpose of motion picture, television and commercial production. 
SECTION 4802 
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION 


4802.1 Live audience stages. Production facilities, sound stages and approved production studios with live audience stages shall be classified as Group A-1 occupancy in accor­dance with the California Building Code. 
4802.2 All other stages. Production studios, sound stages and approved production facilities without live audience stages shall be classified as Group F-1 occupancy in accor­dance with the California Building Code. 
Note: Sections 4803 through 4810 apply only to studio sound stages and approved production facilities. 
SECTION 4803 
REQUIRED PERMITS 


4803.1 Change in use. A permit from the fire code official shall be obtained any time a change in use or occupancy is intended by the owner (e.g., for live audience shows, wrap parties). 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
4803.2 Additional permits. A permit shall be required for: 
a) 	Use ofpyrotechnic special effects. 
b) Open flames. 
c) 	Flammable or combustible liquids, gases and dust. 
d) Hot work. 
e) 	Presence ofmotor vehicles within a building. 
f) Any additional permits as required by the fire code offi­
cial. 
4803.3 Live audiences. A permit shall be required for seating 
arrangements ofall live audience stages. 
SECTION 4804 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


4804.1 Housekeeping. Provisions of this part shall maintain proper housekeeping in accordance with Chapter 3. 
4804.2 Aisles. Perimeter aisles within the sound stage and approved production facility shall be provided. Aisles required by this section shall have a minimum width of4 feet ( 1219 mm). See Chapter 10 for maintenance requirements. Aisles required by this section shall have a minimum clear unobstructed height of 7feet (2134 mm). 
4804.3 Travel distance. The maximum travel distance to any exit within the sound stage and approved production facility shall be 150 feet ( 45 720 mm ). 
4804.4 Exit doors. Exit doors shall be equipped with panic hardware and swing in the direction ofexit travel. 
4804.5 Exit signs. Illuminated exit signs shall be installed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
4804.6 Exit illumination. Exit illumination shall be provided in accordance with the California Building Code. In the event ofpower failure, exit path illumination shall be automatically provided by an approved emergency back-up system. 
4804.7 Exit obstructions. All means of egress shall be main­tained in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 10, Sec­tion 1005.1. 
4804.8 Foam plastics. All foam plastics shall meet the requirements of Chapter 8, Sections 807.4.2.4 and 807.4.5. 
4804.9 Decorative materials. Drapes, drops, cut greens, etc., shall meet the flame retardant requirements of California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapters 5 and 8, Sections 807.4.2.4 and 807.4.5. 
SECTION 4805 
FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS 


4805.1 Existing sound stages and approved production facilities. All existing sound stages and approved production facilities equipped with an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions in Chapter 9. 
4805.2 New sound stages. All new sound stages shall be equipped with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system. The system shall be installed in accordance with the provi­sions in Chapter 9 and shall meet the mmzmum design requirements ofan Extra Hazard, Group 2 system. 
4805.3 Solid-ceiling sets and platforms. All interior solid­ceiling sets over 600 square feet (55. 7m2) in area, and plat­forms (when provided) over 600 square feet (55. 7m2) in area and which exceed 3 feet (9/4 mm) in height shall be protected by one ofthe following: 
1. 	
An approved and listed heat detector system. Heat detectors shall be spaced 30 feet (9144 mm) on center or as required by the manufacturer's installation instructions. Detectors shall be connected to an approved and listed central, proprietary or remote sta­tion service or a local alarm, which will give an audi­ble signal at a constantly attended location. Such system shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 9. 

2. 	
The ceiling shall be positioned to allow for the opera­tion of the building's automatic fire sprinkler system after rehearsal, videotaping, filming, or broadcasting ofprograms has been completed for the day. 

3. 	
An approved fire watch. 

4. 	
Special hazards shall be reviewed by the fire code offi­cial (see Additional Fire Protection Systems, Section 901.4.3). 


SECTION 4806 
FIRE DETECTION EQUIPMENT 


4806.1 Fire alarm control units. Fire alarm control units shall be California State Fire Marshal listed and shall be uti­lized in accordance with their listing. Control units may be temporarily supported by sets, platforms or pedestals. 
4806.2 Heat detectors. Heat detection required by this article shall be defined as a portable system as it is intended to be reinstalled when platforms or sets are changed. 
Heat detectors may be secured to standard outlet boxes which may be temporarily supported by sets, platforms or pedestals. 
Heat detectors shall be provided for solid-ceiling sets and platforms where required by Sections 4605.3 and 4811.14. 
SECTION 4807 
FIRE SAFETY OFFICERS 


4807.1 Where permits are required by the Fire Code, a requirement for standby fire safety officers shall be deter­mined by the fire code official on a case-by-case basis. Standby fire safety officers shall not be required when the provisions ofthis article are met. 
SECTION 4808 
ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS 


4808.1 General. All electrical equipment including lighting, cabling and temporary power, such as portable generators, shall be maintained in good working order and shall comply with the provisions ofthe California Electrical Code. 
MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCTION STUDIO SOUND STAGES, APPROVED PRODUCTION FACILITIES 
AND PRODUCTION LOCATIONS 

4808.2 Lighting and power requirements. A studio sound stage and approved production facility shall be provided with a minimum of 35 watts per square foot of permanently installed power dedicated for the distribution of production lighting and power. Mobile generators may be utilized for auxiliary power. 
4808.3 Distribution. Distribution equipment shall be designed for sound stage use. The wiring to such equipment shall be considered permanent and shall comply with appli­cable provisions of the California Electrical Code. Tempo­rary feeders shall not be tapped from pane/boards and switchboards where deadfront covers have to be removed. 
4808.4 Installations. Permanent or temporary electrical installations shall be installed in accordance with the Cali­fornia Electrical Code and this code. Such equipment shall not obstruct exits, means ofegress or fire department access, unless approved by the fire code official. 
4808.5 Generators. Portable, mobile or stationary power­generating equipment may be used to supplement building electrical power for temporary use. Equipment shall be located at a pre-designated location, as approved by the fire code official. 
Temporary auxiliary power cables supplied from mobile generators or adjacent buildings may pass through exterior walls and interior fire-resistive assemblies provided an approved through-penetration fire-stop system is utilized for protection ofthe opening. 
SECTION 4809 
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT 


4809.1 Existing equipment. All mechanical equipment used as part ofthe building ventilation system shall be maintained in good working order and shall comply with the provisions ofthe California Mechanical Code. 
4809.2 Auxiliary equipment. All auxiliary heating, ventila­tion and air-conditioning equipment shall be approved and listed for the intended use. Flexible duct, if utilized, shall be noncombustible. Such auxiliary equipment shall not obstruct exits, means ofegress or fire department access. 
SECTION 4810 
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 


4810.1 General. The fire code official shall be provided with certification that approved production facilities and studio sound stages will sustain the anticipated loads ofsets, props or other temporary modifications. 
Where the anticipated loads exceed the design criteria for an approved production facility and studio sound stage, the building or portions thereof shall be modified for the addi­tionalloads. 
SECTION 4811 PRODUCTION LOCATIONS 

4811.1 General. This chapter shall apply to production loca­tions. 
4811.2 Permits. A permit shall be obtained, unless waived by the fire code official for any ofthe activities that follow: 
a) 	Use ofpyrotechnic special effects, see Section 3308.1.1 and California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division I, Chapter 6. 
b) Open flames. 
c) 	Flammable or combustible liquids, gases and dust. 
d) Hotwork. 
e) Presence ofmotor vehicles within a building. 
f) 	Tents and canopies, see Chapter 31. I I 
g) Any additional permits as required by the agency hav­

ing jurisdiction (AHJ). 4811.3 Pyrotechnic special effects and open flames. The use of pyrotechnic special effects and open flames shall be sub­ject to the approval ofthe fire code official. 
4811.4 Standby fire personnel. A requirement for standby fire safety officers shall be determined by the fire code offi­cial on a case-by-case basis. 
4811.5 Foamed plastic materials. All foam plastics shall meet the requirements of Chapter 8, Sections 807.4.2.4 and 
807.4.5. 
4811.6 Smoking. When the fire code official determines that hazardous conditions necessitate controlled use of smoking materials, smoking may be prohibited or limited to desig­nated smoking areas. 
4811.7 Structural loads. Sets, scenery and other equipment shall not impact the structural integrity ofa building or struc­ture. Consultation with a building official or structural engi­neer may be required. 
4811.8 Electrical requirements. 
4811.8.1 General. All electrical equipment including lighting, cabling and temporary power, such as portable generators, shall be maintained in good working order and shall comply with the provisions of the California Electrical Code. 

4811.8.2 Distribution. Temporary feeders shall not be tapped from pane/boards and switchboards where dead­front covers have to be removed. 
4811.8.3 Installations. Electrical installations shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code. Such equipment shall not obstruct exits, means of egress or fire department access, unless approved by the fire code official. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
4811.8.4 Generators. Portable, mobile or stationmy power-generating equipment may be used to supplement building electrical power for temporary use. Equipment shall be placed in a location acceptable to the fire code official. 
4811.9 Fire department access. Required emergency vehicle access shall be maintained. Any deviations are subject to approval by the fire code official. 
4811.10 Means of egress. The production location shall be provided with means of egress appropriate for the intended use as approved by the fire code official. 
4811.11 Fire protection systems and equipment. Functional fire protection systems and equipment shall be maintained in an operable condition, unless approved by the fire code offi­cial. Disconnecting or altering offire protection systems and/ or equipment shall be prohibited, unless otherwise approved by the fire code official with alternate means of protection provided. 
4811.12 Fire hydrants and fire appliances. Hydrants, stand­pipes and fire department connections (FDC) shall not be obstructed, blocked or rendered inoperable in accordance with Chapter 9, unless approved by the fire code official. 
4811.13 Fire extinguishers. Approved fire extinguishers shall be provided as required by the fire code official. 
4811.14 Solid-ceiling sets and platforms. In buildings with existing fire protection systems and where production intends to construct solid-ceiling sets over 600 square feet (55. 7 m2) in area, and platforms over 600 square feet (55. 7m2) in area and which exceed 3 feet (914 mm) in height, such buildings shall be protected by one ofthe following: 
1. 	
An approved and listed heat detector system. Heat detectors shall be spaced 30 feet (9144 mm) on center or as required by the manufacturer's installation instructions. Detectors shall be connected to an approved and listed central, proprietary or remote sta­tion service or a local alarm, which will give an audi­ble signal at a constantly attended location. Such system shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 9. 

2. 	
The ceiling shall be positioned to allow for the opera­tion of the building's automatic fire sprinkler system after rehearsal, videotaping, filming, or broadcasting ofprograms has been completed for the day. 

3. 	
An approved fire watch. 

4. 	
Special hazards shall be reviewed by the enforcing agency (see additional fire protection systems, Section 901.4.3). 


4811.15 Buildings without fire protection systems. Special hazards shall be reviewed by the fire code official (see spe­cial hazards Section 901.4.4). 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 49-REQUIREMENTS FOR WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE FIRE AREAS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

..
...

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISion 1 provisions that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 49 
REQUIREMENTS FOR WILDLAND-URBAN 
INTERFACE FIRE AREAS 

SECTION 4901 
GENERAL 


4901.1 Scope. The mitigation of conditions where a wildfire burning in vegetative fuels may readily transmit fire to build­ings and threaten to destroy life, overwhelm fire suppression capabilities, or result in large property losses shall comply with this chapter. 
4901.2 Purpose. The purpose of this code is to provide mini­mum standards to increase the ability of a building to resist the intrusion offlame or burning embers being projected by a vegetation fire and contributes to a systematic reduction in conflagration losses through the use ofperformance and pre­scriptive requirements. 
SECTION 4902 
DEFINITIONS 


4902.1 General. For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are defined as follows: 
CDF DIRECTOR. Director of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. 
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN. A document prepared for a specific project or development proposed for a Wildland­Urban Interface Fire Area. It describes ways to minimize and mitigate potential for loss from wildfire exposure. 
The Fire Protection Plan shall be in accordance with this Article. When required by the enforcing agency for the pur­poses of granting modifications, a fire protection plan shall be submitted. Only locally adopted ordinances that have been filed with the California Building Standards Commission in accordance with Section /0/./4 or the Department of Hous­ing and Community Development in accordance with Section /0/./5 shall apply. 
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONES. Geographical areas designated pursuant to California Public Resources Codes, Sections 420/ through 4204 and classified as Very High, High, or Moderate in State Responsibility Areas or as Local Agency Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones designated pursuant to California Government Code, Sections 51175 through 5l/89. 
The California Code ofRegulations, Title I 4, Section /280 entitles the maps ofthese geographical areas as "Maps ofthe Fire Hazard Severity Zones in the State Responsibility Area of California. " 
LOCAL AGENCY VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVER­ITY ZONE. An area designated by a local agency upon the recommendation of the CDF Director pursuant to Govern­ment Code, Sections 5l/77(c), 5l/78 and 5l/8, that is not a state responsibility area and where a local agency, city, county, city and county, or district is responsible for fire pro­tection. 
STATE RESPONSIBILITY AREA. Lands that are classi­fied by the Board of Forestry pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 4/25 where the financial responsibility ofpre­venting and suppressing forest fires is primarily the responsi­bility ofthe state. 
WILDFIRE. Any uncontrolled fire spreading through vege­tative fuels that threatens to destroy life, property, or resources as defined in Public Resources Code, Sections 4/03 and 4/04. 
WILDFIRE EXPOSURE. One or a combination of radiant heat, convective heat, direct flame contact and burning 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
embers being projected by vegetation fire to a structure and its immediate environment. 
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE FIRE AREA. A geo­graphical area identified by the state as a "Fire Hazard Severity Zone" in accordance with the Public Resources Code, Sections 4201 through 4204, and Government Code, Sections 51175 through 51189, or other areas designated by the enforcing agency to be at a significant risk from wildfires. 
SECTION 4903 
PLANS [RESERVED] 

SECTION 4904 
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONES 


4904.1 General. Lands in the state are classified by the CDF Director in accordance with the severity of wildfire hazard expected to prevail in those areas and the responsibility for fire protection, so that measures may be identified which will reduce the potential for losses to life, property, and resources from wildfire. 
4904.2 Classifications. The CDF Director classifies lands into fire hazard severity zones in accordance with California Public Resources Code, Sections 4201 through 4204 for State Responsibility Areas and accordance with Government Code, Sections 51175 through 51189 for areas where a local agency is responsible for fire protection. 
SECTION 4905 
WILDFIRE PROTECTION BUILDING 
CONSTRUCTION 


4905.1 General. Materials and construction methods for exterior wildfire exposure protection shall be applied within geographical areas where a wildfire burning in vegetative fuels may readily transmit fire to buildings and threaten to destroy life, overwhelm fire suppression capabilities, or result in large property losses. 
4905.2 Construction methods and requirements within established limits. Within the limits established by law, con­struction methods intended to mitigate wildfire exposure shall comply with the wildfire protection building construc­tion requirements contained in the California Building Stan­dards Code, including the following: 
1. 	
California Building Code, Chapter 7A, 

2. 	
California Residential Code, Section R327, 

3. 	
California Referenced Standards Code, Chapter 12-7A and this chapter. 


4905.3 Establishment of limits. The establishment of limits for the Wildland-Urban Interface Fire Area's required con­struction methods shall be designated pursuant to the Cali­fornia Public Resources Code for State Responsibility areas or by a local agency following a finding supported by sub­stantial evidence in the record that the requirements of this section are necessary for effective fire protection within the area. 
SECTION 4906 

HAZARDOUS VEGETATION AND FUEL 
MANAGEMENT 

4906.1 General. Hazardous vegetation and fuels shall be managed to reduce the severity ofpotential exterior wildfire exposure to buildings and to reduce the risk offire spreading to buildings as required by applicable laws and regulations. 
4906.2 Application. Buildings and structures located in the following areas shall maintain the required hazardous vege­
tation and fuel management: 
1. 	All unincorporated lands designated by the State Board of Forestry and Fire Protection as State Responsibility Area (SRA) including: 
1.1. Moderate Fire Hazard Severity Zones. 
1.2. High Fire Hazard Severity Zones. 
1.3. 
Very-high Fire Hazard Severity Zones. 

2. 	
Land designated as Very-high Fire Hazard Severity Zone by cities and other local agencies. 


4906.3 Requirements. Hazardous vegetation and fuels around all applicable buildings and structures shall be main­tained in accordance with the following laws and regula­tions: 
1. 	
Public Resources Code, Section 4291. 

2. 	
California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Division 1.5, Chapter 7, Subchapter 3, Section 1299 (see guidance for implementation "General Guideline to Create Defensible Space"). 

3. 	
California Government Code, Section 51182. 

4. 	
California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 7, Subchapter 1, Section 3.07. 


SECTION 4907 
DEFENSIBLE SPACE 


4907.1 General. Defensible space will be maintained around all buildings and structures in State Responsibility Area (SRA) as required in Public Resources Code 4290 and "SRA Fire Safe Regulations" California Code ofRegulations, Title 14, Division 1.5, Chapter 7, Subchapter 2, Section 1270. 
Buildings and structures within the Very-high Fire Hazard Severity Zones of a Local Responsibility Areas (LRA) shall maintain defensible space as outlined in Government Code 51175-51189 and any local ordinance of the authority hav­ing jurisdiction. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 50-HAZARDOUS MATERIALS-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 


* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Tttle 19, Dtvtswn 1 provtswns that are found m the Califorma Ftre Code are a reprmt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part V-Hazardous Materials 
SECTION 5001 
GENERAL 


5001.1 Scope. Prevention, control and mitigation of danger­ous conditions related to storage, dispensing, use and han­dling of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
This chapter shall apply to all hazardous materials, includ­ing those materials regulated elsewhere in this code, except that when specific requirements are provided in other chap­ters, those specific requirements shall apply in accordance with the applicable chapter. Where a material has multiple hazards, all hazards shall be addressed. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	In retail or wholesale sales occupancies, the quan­tities of medicines, foodstuffs, consumer or indus­
trial products and cosmetics containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liq­uids and with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable shall not be limited, provided such materials are packaged in individual contain­ers not exceeding 1.3 gallons (5 L). 
2. 	
Quantities of alcoholic beverages in retail or wholesale sales occupancies shall not be limited providing the liquids are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons (5 L). 

3. 	
Application and release of pesticide and agricul­tural products and materials intended for use in weed abatement, erosion control, soil amendment or similar applications when applied in accordance 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
with the manufacturers' instructions and label directions. 

4. 	
The off-site transportation of hazardous materials when in accordance with Department of Transpor­tation (DOTn) regulations. 

5. 	
Building materials not otherwise regulated by this code. 

6. 	
Refrigeration systems (see Section 606). 

7. 	
Stationary storage battery systems regulated by Section 608. 

8. 	
The display, storage, sale or use of fireworks and explosives in accordance with Chapter 56. 

9. 	
Corrosives utilized in personal and household products in the manufacturers' original consumer packaging in Group M occupancies. 

10. 	
The storage of distilled spirits and wines in wooden barrels and casks. 

11. 	
The use of wall-mounted dispensers containing alcohol-based hand rubs classified as Class I or II liquids when in accordance with Section 5705.5. 


5001.1.1 Waiver. The provisions of this chapter are waived when the fire code official determines that such enforcement is preempted by other codes, statutes or ordi­nances. The details of any action granting such a waiver shall be recorded and entered in the files of the code enforcement agency. 
5001.2 Material classification. Hazardous materials are those chemicals or substances defined as such in this code. Definitions of hazardous materials shall apply to all hazard­ous materials, including those materials regulated elsewhere in this code. 
5001.2.1 Mixtures. Mixtures shall be classified in accor­dance with hazards of the mixture as a whole. Mixtures of hazardous materials shall be classified in accordance with nationally recognized reference standards; by an approved qualified organization, individual, or Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS); or by other approved methods. 
5001.2.2 Hazard categories. Hazardous materials shall be classified according to hazard categories. The categories include materials regulated by this chapter and materials regulated elsewhere in this code. 
5001.2.2.1 Physical hazards. The material categories listed in this section are classified as physical hazards. A material with a primary classification as a physical hazard can also pose a health hazard. 
1. 	
Explosives and blasting agents. 

2. 	
Combustible liquids. 

3. 	
Flammable solids, liquids and gases. 

4. 	
Organic peroxide solids or liquids. 

5. 	
Oxidizer, solids or liquids. 

6. 	
Oxidizing gases. 


7. 	
Pyrophoric solids, liquids or gases. 

8. 	
Unstable (reactive) solids, liquids or gases. 

9. 	
Water-reactive solids or liquids. 


< 

10. 	Cryogenic fluids. 
5001.2.2.2 Health hazards. The material categories listed in this section are classified as health hazards. A material with a primary classification as a health hazard can also pose a physical hazard. 
1. 	
Highly toxic and toxic materials. 

2. 
Corrosive materials. 5001.3 Performance-based design alternative. When approved by the fire code official, buildings and facilities where hazardous materials are stored, used or handled shall be permitted to comply with this section as an alternative to 


compliance with the other requirements set forth in this chap­ter and Chapters 51 through 67. 
5001.3.1 Objective. The objective of Section 5001.3 is to protect people and property from the consequences of unauthorized discharge, fires or explosions involving haz­ardous materials. 
5001.3.2 Functional statements. Performance-based design alternatives are based on the following functional statements: 
1. 	
Provide safeguards to minimize the risk of unwanted releases, fires or explosions involving hazardous materials. 

2. 	
Provide safeguards to minimize the consequences of an unsafe condition involving hazardous materials during normal operations and in the event of an abnormal condition. 


5001.3.3 Performance requirements. When safeguards, systems, documentation, written plans or procedures, audits, process hazards analysis, mitigation measures, engineering controls or construction features are required by Sections 5001.3.3.1 through 5001.3.3.18, the details of the design alternative shall be subject to approval by the fire code official. The details of actions granting the use of the design alternatives shall be recorded and entered in the files of the jurisdiction. 
5001.3.3.1 Properties of hazardous materials. The physical-and health-hazard properties of hazardous materials on site shall be known and shall be made readily available to employees, neighbors and the fire code official. 
5001.3.3.2 Reliability of equipment and operations. 
Equipment and operations involving hazardous materi­als shall be designed, installed and maintained to ensure that they reliably operate as intended. 
5001.3.3.3 Prevention of unintentional reaction or release. Safeguards shall be provided to minimize the risk of an unintentional reaction or release that could endanger people or property. 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALs-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
5001.3.3.4 Spill mitigation. Spill containment systems or means to render a spill harmless to people or prop­erty shall be provided where a spill is determined to be a plausible event and where such an event would endanger people or property. 
5001.3.3.5 Ignition hazards. Safeguards shall be pro­vided to minimize the risk of exposing combustible hazardous materials to unintended sources of ignition. 
5001.3.3.6 Protection of hazardous materials. Safe­guards shall be provided to minimize the risk of expos­ing hazardous materials to a fire or physical damage whereby such exposure could endanger or lead to the endangerment of people or property. 
5001.3.3.7 Exposure hazards. Safeguards shall be provided to minimize the risk of and limit damage from a fire or explosion involving explosive hazardous mate­rials whereby such fire or explosion could endanger or lead to the endangerment of people or property. 
5001.3.3.8 Detection of gas or vapor release. Where a release of hazardous materials gas or vapor would cause immediate harm to persons or property, means of mitigating the dangerous effects of a release shall be provided. 
5001.3.3.9 Reliable power source. Where a power supply is relied upon to prevent or control an emer­gency condition that could endanger people or prop­erty, the power supply shall be from a reliable source. 
5001.3.3.10 Ventilation. Where ventilation is neces­sary to limit the risk of creating an emergency condi­tion resulting from normal or abnormal operations, means of ventilation shall be provided. 
5001.3.3.11 Process hazard analyses. Process hazard analyses shall be conducted to ensure reasonably the protection of people and property from dangerous con­ditions involving hazardous materials. 
5001.3.3.12 Pre-startup safety review. Written docu­mentation of pre-startup safety review procedures shall be developed and enforced to ensure that operations are initiated in a safe manner. The process of developing and updating such procedures shall involve the partici­pation of affected employees. 
5001.3.3.13 Operating and emergency procedures. Written documentation of operating procedures and procedures for emergency shut down shall be devel­oped and enforced to ensure that operations are con­ducted in a safe manner. The process of developing and updating such procedures shall involve the participa­tion of affected employees. 
5001.3.3.14 Management of change. A written plan for management of change shall be developed and enforced. The process of developing and updating the plan shall involve the participation of affected employ­ees. 
5001.3.3.15 Emergency plan. A written emergency plan shall be developed to ensure that proper actions are taken in the event of an emergency, and the plan shall be followed if an emergency condition occurs. The process of developing and updating the plan shall involve the participation of affected employees. 
5001.3.3.16 Accident procedures. Written procedures for investigation and documentation of accidents shall be developed, and accidents shall be investigated and documented in accordance with these procedures. 
5001.3.3.17 Consequence analysis. Where an acciden­tal release of hazardous materials could endanger peo­ple or property, either on or off-site, an analysis of the expected consequences of a plausible release shall be performed and utilized in the analysis and selection of active and passive hazard mitigation controls. 
5001.3.3.18 Safety audits. Safety audits shall be con­ducted on a periodic basis to verify compliance with the requirements of this section. 

5001.4 Retail and wholesale storage and display. For retail and wholesale storage and display of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials in Group M occupancies and storage in Group S occupancies, see Section 5003.11. 
5001.5 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
When required by the fire code official, permittees shall apply for approval to permanently close a storage, use or han­dling facility. Such application shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the termination of the storage, use or handling of hazardous materials. The fire code official is authorized to require that the application be accompanied by an approved facility closure plan in accordance with Section 5001.6.3. 
5001.5.1 Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP). Where required by the fire code official, an application for a permit shall include an HMMP. The HMMP shall include a facility site plan designating the following: 
1. 	
Access to each storage and use area. 

2. 	
Location of emergency equipment. 

3. 
Location 	where liaison will meet emergency responders. 

4. 	
Facility evacuation meeting point locations. 

5. 	
The general purpose of other areas within the build­ing. 

6. 	
Location of all above-ground and underground tanks and their appurtenances including, but not limited to, sumps, vaults, below-grade treatment systems and piping. 

7. 
The hazard classes in each area. 

8. 	
Locations of all control areas and Group H occupan­cies. 

9. 
Emergency exits. 



[For SFM] The HMMP shall comply with Health and Safety Code, Chapter 6.95, Sections 25500 through 25545, and Title 19, Division 2, Chapter 4. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5001.5.2 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement (HMIS). Where required by the fire code official, an application for a permit shall include an HMIS, such as Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) Title III, Tier II Report or other approved state­ment. The HMIS shall include the following information: 
1. 
Product name. 

2. 
Component. 

3. 
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number. 

4. 
Location where stored or used. 

5. 
Container size. 

6. 
Hazard classification. 

7. 
Amount in storage. 

8. 
Amount in use-closed systems. 

9. 
Amount in use-open systems. 


[For SFM] The HMIS shall comply with Health and Safety Code, Chapter 6.95, Sections 25500 through 25545, and Title I 9, Division 2, Chapter 4. 
5001.6 Facility closure. Facilities shall be placed out of ser­vice in accordance with Sections 5001.6.1 through 5001.6.3. 
5001.6.1 Temporarily out-of-service facilities. Facilities that are temporarily out of service shall continue to main­tain a permit and be monitored and inspected. 
5001.6.2 Permanently out-of-service facilities. Facili­ties for which a permit is not kept current or is not moni­tored and inspected on a regular basis shall be deemed to be permanently out of service and shall be closed in an approved manner. When required by the fire code official, permittees shall apply for approval to close permanently storage, use or handling facilities. The fire code official is authorized to require that such application be accompanied by an approved facility closure plan in accordance with Section 5001.6.3. 
5001.6.3 Facility closure plan. When a facility closure plan is required in accordance with Section 5001.5 to termi­nate storage, dispensing, handling or use of hazardous materials, it shall be submitted to the fire code official at least 30 days prior to facility closure. The plan shall demon­strate that hazardous materials which are stored, dispensed, handled or used in the facility will be transported, disposed of or reused in a manner that eliminates the need for further maintenance and any threat to public health and safety. 
SECTION 5002 
DEFINITIONS 


5002.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
BOILING POINT. 
CEILING LIMIT. 
CHEMICAL. 
CHEMICAL NAME. 
CLOSED CONTAINER. 
CONTAINER. 
CONTROL AREA. 
CYLINDER. 
DAY BOX. 
DEFLAGRA TION. 
DESIGN PRESSURE. 
DETACHED BUILDING. 
DISPENSING. 
EXCESS FLOW CONTROL. 
EXHAUSTED ENCLOSURE. 
EXPLOSION. 
FLAMMABLE VAPORS OR FUMES. 
GAS CABINET. 
GAS ROOM. 
HANDLING. 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. 
HEALTH HAZARD. 
IMMEDIATELY DANGEROUS TO LIFE AND 
HEALTH (IDLH). INCOMPATIBLE MATERIALS. LIQUID. LOWER EXPLOSIVE LIMIT (LEL). LOWER FLAMMABLE LIMIT (LFL). MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS). MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CON­
TROLAREA. NORMAL TEMPERATURE AND PRESSURE (NTP). OUTDOOR CONTROL AREA. PERMISSIBLE EXPOSURE LIMIT (PEL). PESTICIDE. PHYSICAL HAZARD. PRESSURE VESSEL. SAFETY CAN. SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. SEGREGATED. SOLID. STORAGE, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. SYSTEM. TANK, ATMOSPHERIC. TANK, PORTABLE. TANK, STATIONARY. TANK VEHICLE. UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE. USE (MATERIAL). VAPOR PRESSURE. 
SECTION 5003 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


5003.1 Scope. The storage, use and handling of all hazardous materials shall be in accordance with this section. 
5003.1.1 Maximum allowable quantity per control area. The maximum allowable quantity per control area shall be as specified in Tables 5003.1.1 ( 1) through 5003.1.1(4). 
For retail and wholesale storage and display in Group M occupancies and Group S storage, see Section 5003.11. 
5003.1.2 Conversion. Where quantities are indicated in pounds and when the weight per gallon of the liquid is not provided to the fire code official, a conversion factor of 10 pounds per gallon (1.2 kg!L) shall be used. 
5003.1.3 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area. The storage, use and han­dling of hazardous materials in quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indi­cated in Tables 5003.1.1(1) through 5003.1.1(4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001 and 5003. 
5003.1.4 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of hazard­ous materials in quantities exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area indicated in Tables 5003.1.1 ( 1) through 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with this chapter. 

5003.2 Systems, equipment and processes. Systems, equip­ment and processes utilized for storage, dispensing, use or handling of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.2.1 through 5003.2.8. 
5003.2.1 Design and construction of containers, cylin­ders and tanks. Containers, cylinders and tanks shall be designed and constructed in accordance with approved standards. Containers, cylinders, tanks and other means used for containment of hazardous materials shall be of an approved type. Pressure vessels shall comply with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. 
5003.2.2 Piping, tubing, valves and fittings. Piping, tub­ing, valves, and fittings conveying hazardous materials shall be designed and installed in accordance with ASME B31 or other approved standards, and shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5003.2.2.1 and 5003.2.2.2. 
5003.2.2.1 Design and construction. Piping, tubing, valves, fittings and related components used for hazard­ous materials shall be in accordance with the following: 
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL5-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. 	
Piping, tubing, valves, fittings and related com­ponents shall be designed and fabricated from materials that are compatible with the material to be contained and shall be of adequate strength and durability to withstand the pressure, struc­tural and seismic stress and exposure to which they are subject. 

2. 	
Piping and tubing shall be identified in accor­dance with ASME Al3.1 to indicate the material conveyed. 

3. 	
Readily accessible manual valves or automatic remotely activated fail-safe emergency shutoff valves shall be installed on supply piping and tubing at the following locations: 


3.1. The point of use. 
3.2. 
The tank, cylinder or bulk source. 

4. 	
Manual emergency shutoff valves and controls for remotely activated emergency shutoff valves shall be identified and the location shall be clearly visible, accessible and indicated by means of a sign. 

5. 	
Backflow prevention or check valves shall be provided when the backflow of hazardous materi­als could create a hazardous condition or cause the unauthorized discharge of hazardous materi­als. 

6. 	
Where gases or liquids having a hazard ranking of: 


Health Class 3 or 4 
Flammability Class 4 
Instability Class 3 or 4 

in accordance with NFPA 704 are carried in pres­surized piping above 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (103 kPa), an approved means of leak detection and emergency shutoff or excess flow control shall be provided. Where the piping originates from within a hazardous material stor­age room or area, the excess flow control shall be located within the storage room or area. Where the piping originates from a bulk source, the excess flow control shall be located as close to the bulk source as practical. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Piping for inlet connections designed to pre­vent backflow. 

2. 	
Piping for pressure relief devices. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 5003.1.1(1) 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS POSING A PHYSICAL HAZARD•· i. m, "· P 

MATERIAL  CLASS  GROUP WHEN THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY IS EXCEEDED  STORAGEb  USE-CLOSED SYSTEMSb  USE-OPEN SYSTEMSb  
Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet atNTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet atNTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  
Combustible dust  Not Applicable  H-2  See Note q  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  SeeNoteq  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  See Note q  Not Applicable  
Combustible fiber  Loose Baled0  H-3  (100) (1,000)  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  (100) (1,000)  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  (20) (200)  Not Applicable  
Combustible liquid'·;  II lilA IIIB  H-2 orH-3 H-2 or H-3 Not Applicable  Not Applicable  120d,e 330d,e 13,200e,f  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  120d 330d 13,200f  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  30d soct 3,300f  
Cryogenic Flammable  Not Applicable  H-2  Not Applicable  45d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  45d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  lOd  
Consumer fireworks  1.4G  H-3  125d,e, I  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Cryogenic Oxidizing  Not Applicable  H-3  Not Applicable  45d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  45d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  lOd  
Explosives  Division 1.1 Division 1.2 Division 1.3 Division 1.4 Division 1.4G Division 1.5 Division 1.6  H-1 H-1 H-1 or H-2 H-3 H-3 H-1 H-1  1e, g l e, g y.g 50e.g 125d,e,l 1e, g 1e.g  (l)e,g en·· g (5)"·g (50)"·g Not Applicable (l)e,g Not Applicable  Not Applicable  0.25g 0.25g 1 g 50g Not Applicable 0.25g Not Applicable  (0.25)g (0.25)g (1)g (50)g Not Applicable (0.25)g Not Applicable  Not Applicable  0.25g 0.25g 1g Not Applicable Not Applicable 0.25g Not Applicable  (0.25)g (0.25)g (1)g Not Applicable Not Applicable (0.2W Not Applicable  
Flammable gas  Gaseous Liquefied  H-2  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (150)d, e  1,oooct,e Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (150)d, e  1,000ct,e Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Flammable liquid'  IA IB andiC  H-2 or H-3  Not Applicable  30d,e 120d,e  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  30d 120d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  lOd 30d  
Flammable liquid, combination (IA, IB, IC)  Not Applicable  H-2 or H-3  Not Applicable  120d,e,h  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  120d,h  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  30d,h  
Flammable solid  Not Applicable  H-3  125d, e  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  125d  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  25d  Not Applicable  

N 
0
... 
(o) 
0 )> (continued) 
r 
~ 
::c 
z 
)> 
'TI 
ii 
m 0 0 
c 
m 
:I: 
)> 
N 
)>
::c 
c 
0 
c: 
en 
s: 
~ 
m
::c 
)> 
i r 
G) 
m 
z 
m
::c 
)> 
r 
"tJ
::c 
0 
<
(ij 
0 
z 
en 
N 0
... 

Col 
0 
l> 
r­
=n 
0 
::0 
z 
)>
., 
jj m 
0 0 c 
m 
TABLE 5003.1.1(1)-continued 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS POSING A PHYSICAL HAZARD"·i,m,n,p 

MATERIAL  CLASS  GROUP WHEN THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY IS EXCEEDED  STORAGE"  USE-CLOSED SYSTEMS"  USE-OPEN SYSTEMS"  
Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet atNTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet atNTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)  
Inert Gas  Gaseous  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  
Applicable  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  
Liquefied  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  
Applicable  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  
Cryogenic Inert  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  Not  
Applicable  Applicable  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  Limited  Applicable  Applicable  
Organic peroxide  UD I II III IV v  H-1 H-2 H-3 H-3 Not Applicable Not Applicable  1e, g 5d,e 50d,e 125d,e Not Limited Not Limited  (l)e,g (5)d, e (50)d, e (125)d, e Not Limited Not Limited  Not Applicable  0.25g 1 d 50d 125d Not Limited Not Limited  (0.25)g (l)d (50)d (125)d Not Limited Not Limited  Not Applicable  0.25g ld lOd 25d Not Limited Not Limited  (0.25)g (1)d (10)ct (25)d Not Limited Not Limited  
Oxidizer  4 3k 2 1  H-1 H-2 or H-3 H-3 Not Applicable  1 g 10ct.e 250d,e 4,000e,f  (l)e, g CIW·e (250)d,e (4,000)",f  Not Applicable  0.25g 2d 250d 4,000f  (0.25)g (2)d C25W (4,000/  Not Applicable  0.25g 2d 50d l,Ooor  (0.25)g (2)d csw (l,OOO)r  
Oxidizing gas  Gaseous Liquefied  H-3  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (150)d, e  1,500d,e Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (150)d, e  1,500d,e Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Pyrophoric  Not Applicable  H-2  4e,g  (4)e,g  soe,g  p  (l)g  we,g  0  0  
Unstable (reactive)  4 3 2 1  H-1 H-1 or H-2 H-3 Not Applicable  1e, g 5ct,e 50d,e Not Limited  (l)e, g cw·e (50)d, e Not Limited  lQe,g 50d,e 250d,e Not Limited  0.25g 1 d 50d Not Limited  (0.25)g (l)d (50)d Not Limited  2e,g lQd,e 250d,e Not Limited  0.25g ld lOd Not Limited  (0.25)g (l)d (10)ct Not Limited  
Water reactive  3 2 1  H-2 H-3 Not Applicable  5ct,e 50d,e Not Limited  cw·e (50)d, e Not Limited  Not Applicable  5d 50d Not Limited  (5)d (50)d Not Limited  Not Applicable  1d 10ct Not Limited  (l)d (10)ct Not Limited  

For SI: 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3, 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
For use of control areas, see Section 5003.8.3. 

b. 
The aggregate quantity in use and storage shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage. 

c. 	
The quantities of alcoholic beverages in retail and wholesale sales occupancies shall not be limited providing the liquids are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons. In retail and wholesale sales occupancies, the quantities of medicines, foodstuffs, consumer or industrial products, and cosmetics containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable shall not be limited, provided that such materials are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons. 

d. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Where Note e also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively. 


(continued) 

:::r:: l> 
N l> 
::0 
c 
0 
c 
en 
s 
~ 
m 
::0 
)> 
r-
b 

m 
z 
m 
::0 
l> 
r­
"C ::0 
0 
< 
en 
0 
z 
en 
TABLE 5003.1.1 (1 )-continued 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS POSING A PHYSICAL HAZARD•· i, m, n, P 

e. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent when stored in approved storage cabinets, day boxes, gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures, or listed safety cans. Listed safety cans shall be in accordance with Section 5003.9.10. Where Noted also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively. 

f. 	
Quantities shall not be limited in a building equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

g. 
Allowed only in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 

h. 
Containing not more than the maximum allowable quantity per control area of Class IA, Class IB or Class IC flammable liquids. 

i. 	
The maximum allowable quantity shall not apply to fuel oil storage complying with Section 603.3.2. 

j. 	
Quantities in parenthesis indicate quantity units in parenthesis at the head of each column. 

k. 	
A maximum quantity of 200 pounds of solid or 20 gallons of liquid Class 3 oxidizers is allowed when such materials are necessary for maintenance purposes, operation or sanitation of equipment when the storage containers and the manner of storage are approved. 

I. 	
Net weight of pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks. Where the net weight of the pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks is not known, 25 percent of the gross weight of the fireworks including 


packaging shall be used. m.For gallons of liquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 5003.1.2. 
n. 
For storage and display quantities in Group M and storage quantities in GroupS occupancies complying with Section 5003.11, see Table 5003.11.1. 

o. 
Densely-packed baled cotton that complies with the packing requirements of ISO 8115 shall not be included in this material class. 

p. 
The following shall not be included in determining the maximum allowable quantities: 


1. 
Liquid or gaseous fuel in fuel tanks on vehicles. 

2. 
Liquid or gaseous fuel in fuel tanks on motorized equipment operated in accordance with this code. 

3. 
Gaseous fuels in piping systems and fixed appliances regulated by the California Mechanical Code. 

4. 
Liquid fuels in piping systems and fixed appliances, regulated by the California Mechanical Code. 


q. Where manufactured, generated or used in such a manner that the concentration and conditions create a fire or explosion hazard based on information prepared in accordance with Section 104.7.2. 
:I: 
)> 
N 
)> 
::0 
c 
0
c: 
CJ) 
:s: 
:!:i 
m 
::0 
:; 
i r 
G'l 
m 
z 
m 
::0 
)> 
r 
"C 
::0 
0 
<
Cii 0 
z 
CJ) 
1\) 
~ 
(,) 
0 
)> 
r 
~ 
::0 
z 
:;
., 
jj m 0 0 
c 
m 
1\) 
0
... 

(,) 
0 
)> 
r
;; 
0 
::0 
z 
:; 
"II 
jj m 
0 
0 
c 
m 
TABLE 5003.1.1(2) 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POSING A HEALTH HAZARDa,b,c,h,i 

MATERIAL  STORAGEd  USE-CLOSED SYSTEMSd  USE-OPEN SYSTEMSd  
Solid pounds"·'  Liquid gallons (pounds)"·'  Gas cubic feet at NTP (pounds)"  Solid pounds"  Liquid gallons (pounds)"  Gas cubic feet at NTP (pounds)"  Solid pounds"  Liquid gallons (pounds)"  
Corrosives  5,000  500  Gaseous 810r Liquefied (150)  5,000  500  Gaseous 810r Liquefied (150)  1,000  100  
Highly Toxics  10  (10)  Gaseous 20g Liquefied (4)g  10  (10)  Gaseous 20g Liquified ( 4 )g  3  (3)  
Toxics  500  (500)  Gaseous 810r Liquefied (150)r  500  (500)  Gaseous 810r Liquefied (150/  125  (125)  

For SI: 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3, 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
For use of control areas, see Section 5003.8.3. 

b. 
In retail and wholesale sales occupancies, the quantities of medicines, foodstuffs, consumer or industrial products, and cosmetics, containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids and with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable, shall not be limited, provided that such materials are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons. 

c. 
For storage and display quantities in Group M and storage quantities in Group S occupancies complying with Section 5003.11, see Table 5003.11.1. 

d. 
The aggregate quantity in use and storage shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage. 

e. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Where Note f also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively. This footnote shall not be applicable to Group L occupancies. 

f. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased !00 percent when stored in approved storage cabinets, gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures. Where Note e also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively. 

g. 
Allowed only when stored in approved exhausted gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures. 

h. 
Quantities in parentheses indicate quantity units in parentheses at the head of each column. 

i. 	
For gallons ofliquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 5003.1.2. 


:I: 
)> 
N 
)> 
::0 
c 
0
c: 
en 
s: 
~ 
m 
::0 
:; 
i r 
G> 
m 
z 
m 
::0 
)> 
r 
"tl 
::0 
0 
< 
en 
0 
z 
en 
MATERIAL  CLASS  STORAGE"  USE-CLOSED SYSTEMS"  USE-OPEN SYSTEMS"  
Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)d  Gas cubic feet at NTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)d  Gas cubic feet at NTP  Solid pounds (cubic feet)  Liquid gallons (pounds)d  
Flammable gas  Gaseous Liquefied  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (300)  3,000 Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (150)  1,500 Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Flammable solid  Not Applicable  500  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  250  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  50  Not Applicable  
Inert Gas Cryogenic inert  Gaseous Liquefied Not Applicable  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  Not Limited Not Limited Not Limited  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  Not Limited Not Limited Not Limited  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable  
Organic peroxide  Unclassified Detonable  1  (1)  Not Applicable  0.25  (0.25)  Not Applicable  0.25  (0.25)  
Organic peroxide  I II III IV v  20 200 500 1,000 Not Limited  (20) (200) (500) (1,000) Not Limited  Not Applicable  10 100 250 500 Not Limited  (10) (100) (250) (500) Not Limited  Not Applicable  2 20 50 100 Not Limited  (2) (20) (50) (100) Not Limited  
Oxidizer  4 3 2 1  2 40 1,000 Not Limited  (2) (40) (1,000) Not Limited  Not Applicable  1 20 500 Not Limited  (1) (20) (500) Not Limited  Not Applicable  0.25 4 100 Not Limited  (0.25) (4) (100) Not Limited  
Oxidizing gas  Gaseous Liquefied  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (600)  6,000 Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable (300)  1,500 Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Pyrophoric materials  Not Applicable  8  (8)  100  4  (4)  10  0  0  
Unstable (reactive)  4 3 2 l  2 20 200 Not Limited  (2) (20) (200) Not Limited  20 200 1,000 1,500  1 10 100 Not Limited  (1) (10) (100) Not Limited  2 10 250 Not Limited  0.25 1 10 Not Limited  (0.25) 1 10 Not Limited  
Water reactive  3 2 1  20 200 Not Limited  (20) (200) Not Limited  Not Applicable  10 100 Not Limited  (10) (100) Not Limited  Not Applicable  1 10 Not Limited  (1) (10) Not Limited  

TABLE 5003.1.1(3) :I: MAXIMUM AllOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS POSING A PHYSICAL HAZARD IN AN OUTDOOR CONTROL AREAa,b,c,d 
~ 
l> 
JJ 
c 
0 
c: 
(J) 
s: 
l> 
-I 
m 
JJ 
:;: 
r 
b 
m 
z 
m JJ l> 
r 
"tl 
JJ 
0 
<
c;; 
0 
z 
(J) 
For Sl: 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 0 N a. For gallons of liquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 5003.1.2. 
..... 
(o) b. The aggregate quantities in storage and use shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage. 
0 l> c. The aggregate quantity of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials allowed in outdoor storage per single property under the same ownership or control used for 
r retail or wholesale sales is allowed to exceed the maximum allowable quantity per control area when such storage is in accordance with Section 5003.11. 

:;; 
d. Quantities in parentheses indicate quantity units in parentheses at the head of each column. 
0 
JJ 
z 
:;:
., 
jj m 
0 
0 
c 
m 
N TABLE 5003.1.1(4) 
..... 1 
Co) MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS POSING A HEALTH HAZARD IN AN OUTDOOR CONTROL AREA"· b, c, 
0 
)> 
;;r­
0 
:0 
z 
l> 
'TI jj m 0 
0 
c 
m 
MATERIAL  STORAGE  USE-CLOSED SYSTEMS  USE-OPEN SYSTEMS  
Solid pounds  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet at NTP (pounds)  Solid pounds  Liquid gallons (pounds)  Gas cubic feet at NTP (pounds)  Solid pounds  Liquid gallons (pounds)  
Corrosives  20,000  2,000  Gaseous 1,620 Liquefied (300)  10,000  1,000  Gaseous 810 Liquefied (150)  1,000  100  
Highly toxics  20  (20)  Gaseous 40d Liquefied <W  10  (10)  Gaseous 20d Liquefied ( 4)d  3  (3)  
Toxics  1,000  (l,OOO)e  Gaseous 1,620 Liquefied (300)  500  50e  Gaseous 810 Liquefied (150)  125  (125)"  

For SI: 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3, 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 pound per square inch absolute= 6.895 kPa,°C = WF)-32/1.8]. 
a. 
For gallons of liquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 5003.1.2. 

b. 
The aggregate quantities in storage and use shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage. 

c. 
The aggregate quantity of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials allowed in outdoor storage per single property under the same ownership or control used for retail or wholesale sales is allowed to exceed the maximum allowable quantity per control area when such storage is in accordance with Section 5003.11. 

d. 
Allowed only when used in approved exhausted gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures or under fume hoods. 

e. 
The maximum allowable quantity per control area for toxic liquids with vapor pressures in excess of 1 psia at 77°F shall be the maximum allowable quantity per control area listed for highly toxic liquids. 

f. 
Quantities in parentheses indicate quantity units in parentheses at the head of each column. 


::J: 
)> 
~ 
:0 
c 
0
c: 
C/) 
5: 
~ 
m 
:0 
I l> m 
z 
m 
:0 
)> 
r­"0 
:0 
0 
<
iii 
5 
z 
C/) 
5003.2.2.2 Additional regulations for supply piping for health-hazard materials. Supply piping and tub­ing for gases and liquids having a health-hazard rank­ing of 3 or 4 in accordance with NFP A 704 shall be in accordance with ASME B31.3 and the following: 
1. 	
Piping and tubing utilized for the transmission of highly toxic, toxic or highly volatile corrosive liquids and gases shall have welded, threaded or flanged connections throughout except for con­nections located within a ventilated enclosure if the material is a gas, or an approved method of drainage or containment is provided for connec­tions if the material is a liquid. 

2. 	
Piping and tubing shall not be located within cor­ridors, within any portion of a means of egress required to be enclosed in fire-resistance-rated construction or in concealed spaces in areas not classified as Group H occupancies. 


Exception: Piping and tubing within the space defined by the walls of corridors and the floor or roof above or in concealed spaces above other occu­pancies when installed in accordance with Section 
415.10.6.4 of the California Building Code for Group H-5 occupancies. 


5003.2.3 Equipment, machinery and alarms. Equip­ment, machinery and required detection and alarm systems associated with the use, storage or handling of hazardous materials shall be listed or approved. 
5003.2.4 Installation of tanks. Installation of tanks shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.2.4.1 through 5003 .2.4.2.1. 
5003.2.4.1 Underground tanks. Underground tanks used for the storage of liquid hazardous materials shall be provided with secondary containment. In lieu of pro­viding secondary containment for an underground tank, an above-ground tank in an underground vault comply­ing with Section 5704.2.8 shall be permitted. 
5003.2.4.2 Above-ground tanks. Above-ground sta­tionary tanks used for the storage of hazardous materi­als shall be located and protected in accordance with the requirements for outdoor storage of the particular material involved. 
Exception: Above-ground tanks that are installed in vaults complying with Section 5303.16 or 5704.2.8 shall not be required to comply with location and protection requirements for outdoor storage. 
5003.2.4.2.1 Marking. Above-ground stationary tanks shall be marked as required by Section 5003.5. 

5003.2.5 Empty containers and tanks. Empty containers and tanks previously used for the storage of hazardous materials shall be free from residual material and vapor as defined by DOTn, the Resource Conservation and Recov­ery Act (RCRA) or other regulating authority or main­tained as specified for the storage of hazardous material. 
5003.2.6 Maintenance. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.2.3, equipment, machinery and required detection and alarm systems associated with hazardous materials shall be maintained in an operable condition. Defective containers, cylinders and tanks shall be removed from service, repaired or disposed of in an approved man­ner. Defective equipment or machinery shall be removed from service and repaired or replaced. Required detection and alarm systems shall be replaced or repaired where defective. 
5003.2.6.1 Tanks out of service for 90 days. Station­ary tanks not used for a period of 90 days shall be prop­erly safeguarded or removed in an approved manner. Such tanks shall have the fill line, gauge opening and pump connection secured against tampering. Vent lines shall be properly maintained. 
5003.2.6.1.1 Return to service. Tanks that are to be placed back in service shall be tested in an approved manner. 
5003.2.6.2 Defective containers and tanks. Defective containers and tanks shall be removed from service, repaired in accordance with approved standards or dis­posed of in an approved manner. 
5003.2.7 Liquid-level limit control. Atmospheric tanks having a capacity greater than 500 gallons (1893 L) and which contain hazardous material liquids shall be equipped with a liquid-level limit control or other approved means to prevent overfilling of the tank. 
5003.2.8 Seismic protection. Machinery and equipment utilizing hazardous materials shall be braced and anchored in accordance with the seismic design requirements of the California Building Code for the seismic design category in which the machinery or equipment is classified. 
5003.2.9 Testing. The equipment, devices and systems listed in Section 5003.2.9.1 shall be tested at the time of installation and at one of the intervals listed in Section 5003.2.9.2. Written records of the tests conducted or main­tenance performed shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 107.2.1. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Periodic testing shall not be required where approved written documentation is provided stat­ing that testing will damage the equipment, device or system and the equipment, device or system is maintained as specified by the manu­facturer. 

2. 	
Periodic testing shall not be required for equip­ment, devices and systems that fail in a fail-safe manner. 

3. 	
Periodic testing shall not be required for equip­ment, devices and systems that self-diagnose and report trouble. Records of the self-diagnosis and trouble reporting shall be made available to the fire code official. 

4. 
Periodic testing shall not be required 	if system activation occurs during the required test cycle for the components activated during the test cycle. 


HAZARDOUS MATERIAL5-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
5. 	Approved maintenance in accordance with Sec­tion 5003.2.6 that is performed not less than annually or in accordance with an approved schedule shall be allowed to meet the testing requirements set forth in Sections 5003.2.9.1 and 5003.2.9.2. 
5003.2.9.1 Equipment, devices and systems requir­ing testing. The following equipment, systems and devices shall be tested in accordance with Sections 5003.2.9 and 5003.2.9.2. 
1. 	
Gas detection systems, alarms and automatic emergency shutoff valves required by Section 6004.2.2.10 for highly toxic and toxic gases. 

2. 	
Limit control systems for liquid level, tempera­ture and pressure required by Sections 5003.2.7, 5004.8 and 5005.1.4. 

3. 	
Emergency alarm systems and supervision required by Sections 5004.9 and 5005.4.4. 

4. 	
Monitoring and supervisory systems required by Sections 5004.10 and 5005.1.6. 

5. 	
Manually activated shutdown controls required by Section 6403.1.1.1 for compressed gas sys­tems conveying pyrophoric gases. 


5003.2.9.2 Testing frequency. The equipment, sys­tems and devices listed in Section 5003.2.9.1 shall be tested at one of the frequencies listed below: 

1. 	
Not less than annually; 

2. 	
In accordance with the approved manufacturer's requirements; 

3. 	
In accordance with approved recognized industry standards; or 


4. 
In accordance with an approved schedule. 5003.3 Release of hazardous materials. Hazardous materi­als in any quantity shall not be released into a sewer, storm drain, ditch, drainage canal, creek, stream, river, lake or tidal 


waterway or on the ground, sidewalk, street, highway or into the atmosphere. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The release or emission of hazardous materials is allowed when in compliance with federal, state or local governmental agencies, regulations or permits. 

2. 	
The release of pesticides is allowed when used in accordance with registered label directions. 

3. 	
The release of fertilizer and soil amendments is allowed when used in accordance with manufac­turer's specifications. 



5003.3.1 Unauthorized discharges. When hazardous materials are released in quantities reportable under state, federal or local regulations, the fire code official shall be notified and the following procedures required in accor­dance with Sections 5003.3.1.1 through 5003.3.1.4. 
5003.3.1.1 Records. Accurate records shall be kept of the unauthorized discharge of hazardous materials by the permittee. 
5003.3.1.2 Preparation. Provisions shall be made for controlling and mitigating unauthorized discharges. 
5003.3.1.3 Control. When an unauthorized discharge caused by primary container failure is discovered, the involved primary container shall be repaired or removed from service. 
5003.3.1.4 Responsibility for cleanup. The person, firm or corporation responsible for an unauthorized dis­charge shall institute and complete all actions necessary to remedy the effects of such unauthorized discharge, whether sudden or gradual, at no cost to the jurisdic­tion. When deemed necessary by the fire code official, cleanup may be initiated by the fire department or by an authorized individual or firm. Costs associated with such cleanup shall be borne by the owner, operator or other person responsible for the unauthorized dis­charge. 

5003.4 Material Safety Data Sheets. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) shall be readily available on the premises for hazardous materials regulated by this chapter. When a haz­ardous substance is developed in a laboratory, available infor­mation shall be documented. 
Exception: Designated hazardous waste. 
5003.5 Hazard identification signs. Unless otherwise exempted by the fire code official, visible hazard identifica­tion signs as specified in NFP A 704 for the specific material contained shall be placed on stationary containers and above­ground tanks and at entrances to locations where hazardous materials are stored, dispensed, used or handled in quantities requiring a permit and at specific entrances and locations des­ignated by the fire code official. 
5003.5.1 Markings. Individual containers, cartons or packages shall be conspicuously marked or labeled in an approved manner. Rooms or cabinets containing com­pressed gases shall be conspicuously labeled: COM­PRESSED GAS. 
5003.6 Signs. Signs and markings required by Sections 5003.5 and 5003.5.1 shall not be obscured or removed, shall be in English as a primary language or in symbols allowed by this code, shall be durable, and the size, color and lettering shall be approved. 
5003.7 Sources of ignition. Sources of ignition shall comply with Sections 5003.7.1 through 5003.7.3. 
5003.7.1 Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited and "No Smoking" signs provided as follows: 
1. 	
In rooms or areas where hazardous materials are stored or dispensed or used in open systems in amounts requiring a permit in accordance with Sec­tion 5001.5. 

2. 	
Within 25 feet (7620 mm) of outdoor storage, dis­pensing or open use areas. 

3. 	
Facilities or areas within facilities that have been designated as totally "no smoking" shall have "No Smoking" signs placed at all entrances to the facility or area. Designated areas within such facilities where smoking is permitted either permanently or 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
temporarily, shall be identified with signs designat­ing that smoking is permitted in these areas only. 

4. In rooms or areas where flammable or combustible hazardous materials are stored, dispensed or used. 
Signs required by this section shall be in English as a primary language or in symbols allowed by this code and shall comply with Section 310. 
5003.7.2 Open flames. Open flames and high-temperature devices shall not be used in a manner which creates a haz­ardous condition and shall be listed for use with the haz­ardous materials stored or used. 
5003.7.3 Industrial trucks. Powered industrial trucks used in areas designated as hazardous (classified) loca­tions in accordance with California Electrical Code shall be listed and labeled for use in the environment intended in accordance with NFPA 505. 
5003.8 Construction requirements. Buildings, control 
areas, enclosures and cabinets for hazardous materials shall 
be in accordance with Sections 5003.8.1 through 5003.8.6.3. 
5003.8.1 Buildings. Buildings, or portions thereof, in which hazardous materials are stored, handled or used shall be constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5003.8.2 Required detached buildings. Group H occu­pancies containing quantities of hazardous materials in excess of those set forth in Table 5003.8.2 shall be in detached buildings. 
5003.8.3 Control areas. Control areas shall comply with Sections 5003.8.3.1 through 5003.8.3.5. 
5003.8.3.1 Construction requirements. Control areas shall be separated from each other by fire barriers con­structed in accordance with Section 707 of the Califor­nia Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Build­ing Code, or both. 
5003.8.3.2 Percentage of maximum allowable quan­tities. The percentage of maximum allowable quantities of hazardous materials per control area allowed at each floor level within a building shall be in accordance with Table 5003.8.3.2. 
5003.8.3.3 Number. The maximum number of control areas per floor within a building shall be in accordance with Table 5003.8.3.2. 
TABLE 5003.8.2 
DETACHED BUILDING REQUIRED 


A DETACHED BUILDING IS REQUIRED WHEN THE QUANTITY OF MATERIAL EXCEEDS THAT LISTED HEREIN  
Material  Class  Solids and liquids (tons)•· b  Gases (cubic feet)•· b  
Explosives  Division 1.1 Division 1.2 Division 1.3 Division 1.4 Division 1.4c Division 1.5 Division 1.6  Maximum Allowable Quantity Maximum Allowable Quantity Maximum Allowable Quantity Maximum Allowable Quantity 1 Maximum Allowable Quantity Maximum Allowable Quantity  Not Applicable  
Oxidizers  Class 4  Maximum Allowable Quantity  Maximum Allowable Quantity  
Unstable (reactives) detonable  Class 3 or4  Maximum Allowable Quantity  Maximum Allowable Quantity  
Oxidizer, liquids and solids  Class 3 Class 2  1,200 2,000  Not Applicable  
Organic peroxides  Detonable Class I Class II Class III  Maximum Allowable Quantity Maximum Allowable Quantity 25 50  Not Applicable  
Unstable (reactives) nondetonable  Class 3 Class 2  1 25  2,000 10,000  
Water reactives  Class 3 Class 2  1 25  Not Applicable  
Pyrophoric gases  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  2,000  

For SI: 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3, 1 ton= 2000 lbs. = 907.2 kg. 
a. 	
For materials which are detonable, the distance to other buildings or lot lines shall be as specified in the California Building Code. For materials classified as explosives, the required separation distances shall be as specified in Chapter 56. 

b. 
"Maximum Allowable Quantity" means the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003. 1.1(1). 

c. 	
Limited to Division 1.4 materials and articles, including articles packaged for shipment, that are not regulated as an explosive under Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives regulations, or unpackaged articles used in process operations that do not propagate a detonation or deflagration between articles, providing the net explosive weight of individual articles does not exceed 1 pound. 


HAZARDOUS MATERIALs-GENERAL PROVISIONS 

TABLE 5003.8.3.2 DESIGN AND NUMBER OF CONTROL AREAS 
FLOOR LEVEL  PERCENTAGE OF THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA"  NUMBER OF CONTROL AREAS PER FLOOR  FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING FOR FIRE BARRIERS IN HOURS•  
Above grade plane  Higher than 9 7-9 6 5 4 3 2 1  5 5 12.5 12.5 12.5 50 75 100  1 2 2 2 2 2 3 4  2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1  
Below grade plane  1 2 Lower than 2  75 50 Not Allowed  3 2 Not Allowed  1 1 Not Allowed  

a. 	
Percentages shall be of the maximum allowable quantity per control area shown in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2), with all increases allowed in the footnotes to those tables. 

b. 
Separation shall include fire barriers and horizontal assemblies as necessary to provide separation from other portions of the building. 


5003.8.3.4 Fire-resistance-rating requirements. The required fire-resistance rating for fire barriers shall be in accordance with Table 5003.8.3.2. The floor assem­bly of the control area and the construction supporting the floor of the control area shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2-hours. 
Exception: The floor assembly of the control area and the construction supporting the floor of the con­trol area is allowed to be 1-hour fire-resistance rated in buildings of Type IIA, IliA and VA construction, provided that both of the following conditions exist: 
1. 	
The building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1; and 

2. 	
The building is three stories or less above grade plane. 


5003.8.3.5 Hazardous material in Group M display and storage areas and in Group S storage areas. The aggregate quantity of nonflammable solid and nonflam­mable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials allowed within a single control area of a Group M dis­play and storage area or a Group S storage area is allowed to exceed the maximum allowable quantities per control area specified in Tables 5003.1.1 (1) and 5003.1.1 (2) without classifying the building or use as a Group H occupancy, provided that the materials are displayed and stored in accordance with Section 5003.11. 
5003.8.4 Gas rooms. Where a gas room is provided to comply with the provisions of Chapter 60, the gas room shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.8.4.1 and 5003.8.4.2. 
5003.8.4.1 Construction. Gas rooms shall be protected with an automatic sprinkler system. Gas rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the building in accor­dance with the requirements of the California Building Code based on the occupancy group into which it has been classified. 
5003.8.4.2 Ventilation system. The ventilation system for gas rooms shall be designed to operate at a negative pressure in relation to the surrounding area. Highly toxic and toxic gases shall also comply with Section 6004.2.2.6. The ventilation system shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

5003.8.5 Exhausted enclosures. Where an exhausted enclosure is used to increase maximum allowable quantity per control area or when the location of hazardous materi­als in exhausted enclosures is provided to comply with the provisions of Chapter 60, the exhausted enclosure shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.8.5.1 through 5003.8.5.3. 
5003.8.5.1 Construction. Exhausted enclosures shall be of noncombustible construction. 
5003.8.5.2 Ventilation. Exhausted enclosures shall be provided with an exhaust ventilation system. The venti­lation system for exhausted enclosures shall be designed to operate at a negative pressure in relation to the surrounding area. Ventilation systems used for highly toxic and toxic gases shall also comply with Items 1, 2 and 3 of Section 6004.1.2. The ventilation system shall be installed in accordance with the Cali­fornia Mechanical Code. 
5003.8.5.3 Fire-extinguishing system. Exhausted enclosures where flammable materials are used shall be protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system in accordance with Chapter 9. 

5003.8.6 Gas cabinets. Where a gas cabinet is used to increase the maximum allowable quantity per control area or when the location of compressed gases in gas cabinets is provided to comply with the provisions of Chapter 60, the gas cabinet shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.8.6.1 through 5003.8.6.3. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5003.8.6.1 Construction. Gas cabinets shall be con­structed in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Constructed of not less than 0.097 -inch (2.5 mm) (No. 12 gage) steel. 

2. 	
Be provided with self-closing limited access ports or noncombustible windows to give access to equipment controls. 

3. 	
Be provided with self-closing doors. 

4. 	
Gas cabinet interiors shall be treated, coated or constructed of materials that are compatible with the hazardous materials stored. Such treatment, coating or construction shall include the entire interior of the cabinet. 



5003.8.6.2 Ventilation. Gas cabinets shall be provided with an exhaust ventilation system. The ventilation sys­tem for gas cabinets shall be designed to operate at a negative pressure in relation to the surrounding area. Ventilation systems used for highly toxic and toxic gases shall also comply with Items 1, 2 and 3 of Section 6004.1.2. The ventilation system shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
5003.8.6.3 Maximum number of cylinders per gas cabinet. The number of cylinders contained in a single gas cabinet shall not exceed three. 
5003.8.7 Hazardous materials storage cabinets. Where storage cabinets are used to increase maximum allowable quantity per control area or to comply with this chapter, such cabinets shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.8.7.1 and 5003.8.7.2. 
5003.8.7.1 Construction. The interior of cabinets shall be treated, coated or constructed of materials that are nonreactive with the hazardous material stored. Such treatment, coating or construction shall include the entire interior of the cabinet. Cabinets shall either be listed in accordance with UL 1275 as suitable for the intended storage or constructed in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Cabinets shall be of steel having a thickness of not less than 0.0478 inch (1.2 mm) (No. 18 gage). The cabinet, including the door, shall be double walled with a 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) airspace between the walls. Joints shall be riveted or welded and shall be tight fitting. Doors shall be well fitted, self-closing and equipped with a self-latching device. 

2. 	
The bottoms of cabinets utilized for the storage of liquids shall be liquid tight to a minimum height of2 inches (51 mm). 



Electrical equipment and devices within cabinets used for the storage of hazardous gases or liquids shall be in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
5003.8.7.2 Warning markings. Cabinets shall be clearly identified in an approved manner with red let­ters on a contrasting background to read: 
HAZARDOUS-KEEP FIRE AWAY. 

5003.9 General safety precautions. General precautions for 
the safe storage, handling or care of hazardous materials shall 
be in accordance with Sections 5003.9.1 through 5003.9.10. 
5003.9.1 Personnel training and written procedures. Persons responsible for the operation of areas in which hazardous materials are stored, dispensed, handled or used shall be familiar with the chemical nature of the materials and the appropriate mitigating actions necessary in the event of fire, leak or spill. 
5003.9.1.1 Fire department liaison. Responsible per­sons shall be designated and trained to be liaison per­sonnel to the fire department. These persons shall aid the fire department in preplanning emergency responses and identifying the locations where hazard­ous materials are located, and shall have access to Material Safety Data Sheets and be knowledgeable in the site's emergency response procedures. 
5003.9.2 Security. Storage, dispensing, use and handling areas shall be secured against unauthorized entry and safe­guarded in a manner approved by the fire code official. 
5003.9.3 Protection from vehicles. Guard posts or other approved means shall be provided to protect storage tanks and connected piping, valves and fittings; dispensing areas; and use areas subject to vehicular damage in accor­dance with Section 312. 
5003.9.4 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
5003.9.5 Static accumulation. When processes or condi­tions exist where a flammable mixture could be ignited by static electricity, means shall be provided to prevent the accumulation of a static charge. 
5003.9.6 Protection from light. Materials that are sensi­tive to light shall be stored in containers designed to pro­tect them from such exposure. 
5003.9.7 Shock padding. Materials that are shock sensi­tive shall be padded, suspended or otherwise protected against accidental dislodgement and dislodgement during seismic activity. 
5003.9.8 Separation of incompatible materials. Incom­patible materials in storage and storage of materials that are incompatible with materials in use shall be separated when the stored materials are in containers having a capac­ity of more than 5 pounds (2 kg) or 0.5 gallon (2 L). Sepa­ration shall be accomplished by: 
1. 	
Segregating incompatible materials in storage by a distance of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm). 

2. 	
Isolating incompatible materials in storage by a non­combustible partition extending not less than 18 inches ( 457 mm) above and to the sides of the stored material. 

3. 	
Storing liquid and solid materials in hazardous material storage cabinets. 

4. 	
Storing compressed gases in gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures in accordance with Sections 5003.8.5 and 5003.8.6. Materials that are incompati­


HAZARDOUS MATERIALS-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
ble shall not be stored within the same cabinet or exhausted enclosure. 
5003.9.9 Shelf storage. Shelving shall be of substantial construction, and shall be braced and anchored in accor­dance with the seismic design requirements of the Califor­nia Building Code for the seismic zone in which the material is located. Shelving shall be treated, coated or constructed of materials that are compatible with the haz­ardous materials stored. Shelves shall be provided with a lip or guard when used for the storage of individual con­tainers. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Storage in hazardous material storage cabinets or laboratory furniture specifically designed for such use. 

2. 	
Storage of hazardous materials in amounts not requiring a permit in accordance with Section 5001.5. 


Shelf storage of hazardous materials shall be main­tained in an orderly manner. 
5003.9.10 Safety cans. Safety cans shall be listed in accordance with UL 30 when used to increase the maxi­mum allowable quantities per control area of flammable or combustible liquids in accordance with Table 5003.1.1(1). Safety cans listed in accordance with UL 1313 are allowed for flammable and combustible liquids when not used to increase the maximum allowable quantities per control area and for other hazardous material liquids in accor­dance with the listing. 

5003.10 Handling and transportation. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.2, the handling and transporta­tion of hazardous materials in corridors elevators and exit enclosures for stairways and ramps shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.10.1 through 5003.10.4.4. 
5003.10.1 Valve protection. Hazardous material gas con­tainers, cylinders and tanks in transit shall have their pro­tective caps in place. Containers, cylinders and tanks of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall have their valve outlets capped or plugged with an approved closure device in accordance with Chapter 53. 
5003.10.2 Carts and trucks required. Liquids in contain­ers exceeding 5 gallons (19 L) in a corridor or exit enclo­sure for a stairway or ramp shall be transported within corridors or exit enclosures, shall be on a cart or truck. Containers of hazardous materials having a hazard ranking of 3 or 4 in accordance with NFPA 704 and transported within corridors or interior exit stairways and ramps, shall be on a cart or truck. Where carts and trucks are required for transporting hazardous materials, they shall be in accordance with Section 5003.10.3. Exceptions 1 through 4 shall not apply where elevators are utilized. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Two hazardous material liquid containers, which are hand carried in acceptable safety carriers. 
2. 	
Not more than four drums not exceeding 55 gal­lons (208 L) each, which are transported by suit­able drum trucks. 

3. 	
Containers and cylinders of compressed gases, which are transported by approved hand trucks, and containers and cylinders not exceeding 25 pounds (11 kg), which are hand carried. 

4. 	
Solid hazardous materials not exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg), which are transported by approved hand trucks, and a single container not exceeding 50 pounds (23 kg), which is hand car­ried. 


5003.10.2.1 Above the lOth story. Above the lOth story ofany occupancy, all vertical handling and transporta­tion of hazardous materials in the building shall be in approved carts. 
5003.10.2.2 Transportation of hazardous materials above the lOth story The handling and transportation of hazardous materials above the lOth story shall be limited to 5 percent of the maximum allowable quanti­ties of Tables 5003.1( 1) and (2). Quantities are permit­ted to be increased by 100 percent in buildings with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Materials where footnote g applies shall not be increased. 

5003.10.3 Carts and trucks. Catis and trucks required by Section 5003.10.2 to be used to transport hazardous mate­rials shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.10.3.1 through 5003.10.3.6. 
5003.10.3.1 Design. Carts and trucks used to transport hazardous materials shall be designed to provide a sta­ble base for the commodities to be transported and shall have a means of restraining containers to prevent acci­dental dislodgement. Compressed gas cylinders placed on carts and trucks shall be individually restrained. 
5003.10.3.2 Speed-control devices. Carts and trucks shall be provided with a device that will enable the operator to control safely movement by providing stops or speed-reduction devices. 
5003.10.3.3 Construction. Construction materials for hazardous material carts or trucks shall be compatible with the material transported. The cart or truck shall be of substantial construction. 
5003.10.3.4 Spill control. Carts and trucks transporting liquids shall be capable of containing a spill from the largest single container transported. 
5003.10.3.5 Attendance. Carts and trucks used to transport materials shall not obstruct or be left unat­tended within any part of a means of egress. 
5003.10.3.6 Incompatible materials. Incompatible materials shall not be transported on the same cart or truck. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5003.10.4 Elevators utilized to transport hazardous mate­rials. 
5003.10.4.1. When transporting hazardous materials, elevators shall have no other passengers other than the individual( s) handling the chemical transport cart. 
5003.10.4.2. Hazardous materials liquid containers shall have a maximum capacity of20 liters (5.28 gal). 
5003.10.4.3. Toxic and highly-toxic gases shall be lim­ited to a container of a maximum water capacity of 1 pound. 
5003.10.4.4. Means shall be provided to prevent the elevator from being summoned to other floors. 
5003.11 Group M storage and display and Group S stor­age. The aggregate quantity of nonflammable solid and non­flammable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials stored and displayed within a single control area of a Group M occupancy, or an outdoor control area, or stored in a single control area of a Group S occupancy, is allowed to exceed the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 when in accordance with Sections 5003.11.1 through 5003.11.3.10. 
5003.11.1 Maximum allowable quantity per control area in Group M or S occupancies. The aggregate amount of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or non­combustible liquid hazardous materials stored and dis­played within a single control area of a Group M occupancy or stored in a single control area of a Group S occupancy shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Table 5003.11.1. 
5003.11.2 Maximum allowable quantity per outdoor control area in Group M or S occupancies. The aggre­gate amount of nonflammable solid and nonflammable or noncombustible liquid hazardous materials stored and dis­played within a single outdoor control area of a Group M occupancy shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Table 5003.11.1. 
5003.11.3 Storage and display. Storage and display shall be in accordance with Sections 5003.11.3.1 through 5003.11.3.10. 
TABLE 5003.11.1 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER INDOOR AND OUTDOOR CONTROL AREA IN GROUP M 
AND S OCCUPANCIEs-NONFLAMMABLE SOLIDS, NONFLAMMABLE AND NONCOMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDSd,e,r 


CONDITION  MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA  
Material"  Class  Solids pounds  Liquids gallons  
A. HEALTH-HAZARD MATERIALs-NONFLAMMABLE AND NONCOMBUSTIBLE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS  
1. Corrosivesb, c  Not Applicable  9,750  975  
2. Highly Toxics  Not Applicable  20b,c  2b,c  
3. Toxicsb,c  Not Applicable  1,000  100  
B. PHYSICAL-HAZARD MATERIALS-NONFLAMMABLE AND NONCOMBUSTIBLE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS  
1. Oxidizersb, c  4  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  
3  1,150g  115  
2  2,250h  225  
1  18,000i,j  1,800i,j  
2. Unstable (Reactives)b,c  4  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  
3  550  55  
2  1,150  115  
1  Not Limited  Not Limited  
3. Water Reactives  3b,c  550  55  
2b,c  1,150  115  
1  Not Limited  Not Limited  

For SI: 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 
a. 
Hazard categories are as specified in Section 5001.2.2. 

b. 
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1, 1. When Note c also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively. 

c. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent when stored in approved storage cabinets in accordance with Section 5003.8. When Note b also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied ac<;umulatively. 

d. 
See Table 5003.8.3.2 for design and number of control areas. 

e. 
Maximum allowable quantities for other hazardous material categories shall be in accordance with Section 5003.1. 

f. 	
Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in outdoor control areas. 

g. 	
Maximum allowable quantities are permitted to be increased to 2,250 pounds when individual packages are in the original sealed containers from the manufacturer or packager and do not exceed 10 pounds each. 

h. 	
Maximum allowable quantities are permitted to be increased to 4,500 pounds when individual packages are in the original sealed containers from the manufacturer or packager and do not exceed 10 pounds each. 

i. 	
Quantities are unlimited where protected by an automatic sprinkler system. 

j. 	
Quantities are unlimited in an outdoor control area. 


5003.11.3.1 Density. Storage and display of solids shall not exceed 200 pounds per square foot (976 kg/m2) of floor area actually occupied by solid merchandise. Stor­age and display of liquids shall not exceed 20 gallons per square foot (0.50 L/m2) of floor area actually occu­pied by liquid merchandise. 
5003.11.3.2 Storage and display height. Display height shall not exceed 6 feet (1829 mm) above the fin­ished floor in display areas of Group M occupancies. Storage height shall not exceed 8 feet (2438 mm) above the finished floor in storage areas of Group M and Group S occupancies. 
5003.11.3.3 Container location. Individual containers less than 5 gallons (19 L) or less than 25 pounds (11 kg) shall be stored or displayed on pallets, racks or shelves. 
5003.11.3.4 Racks and shelves. Racks and shelves used for storage or display shall be in accordance with Section 5003.9.9. 
5003.11.3.5 Container type. Containers shall be approved for the intended use and identified as to their content. 
5003.11.3.6 Container size. Individual containers shall not exceed 100 pounds ( 45 kg) for solids or 10 gallons (38 L) for liquids in storage and display areas. 
5003.11.3.7 Incompatible materials. Incompatible materials shall be separated in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
5003.11.3.8 Floors. Floors shall be in accordance with Section 5004.12. 
5003.11.3.9 Aisles. Aisles 4 feet (1219 mm) in width shall be maintained on three sides of the storage or dis­play area. 
5003.11.3.10 Signs. Hazard identification signs shall be provided in accordance with Section 5003.5. 

5003.12 Outdoor control areas. Outdoor control areas for hazardous materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per outdoor control area shall be in accor­dance with the following: 
1. 	
Outdoor control areas shall be kept free from weeds, debris and common combustible materials not neces­sary to the storage. The area surrounding an outdoor control area shall be kept clear of such materials for a minimum of 15 feet (4572 mm). 

2. 	
Outdoor control areas shall be located not closer than 20 feet (6096 mm) from a lot line that can be built upon, public street, public alley or public way. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
For solid and liquid hazardous materials, a 2­hour fire-resistance-rated wall without open­ings extending not less than 30 inches (762 mm) above and to the sides of the storage area shall be allowed in lieu of such distance. 

2. 	
For compressed gas hazardous materials, unless otherwise specified, the minimum required distances shall not apply when fire 


HAZARDOUS MATERIALs-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
barriers without openings or penetrations hav­ing a minimum fire-resistance rating of 2 hours interrupt the line of sight between the storage and the exposure. The configuration of the fire barrier shall be designed to allow natu­ral ventilation to prevent the accumulation of hazardous gas concentrations. 
3. 	
Where a property exceeds 10,000 square feet (929 m2), a group of two outdoor control areas is allowed when approved and when each con­trol area is separated by a minimum distance of 50 feet (15 240 mm). 

4. 
Where a property exceeds 35,000 square feet (3252 m2), additional groups of outdoor con­trol areas are allowed when approved and when each group is separated by a minimum distance of 300 feet (91 440 mm). 


SECTION 5004 
STORAGE 


5004.1 Scope. Storage of hazardous materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area as set forth in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 5001, 5003 and 5004. Storage of hazardous materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area as set forth in Section 5003.1 shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001 and 5003. Retail and wholesale storage and display of nonflammable solid and nonflammable and noncombustible liquid hazardous materials in Group M occupancies and Group S storage shall be in accordance with Section 5003.11. 
5004.2 Spill control and secondary containment for liquid and solid hazardous materials. Rooms, buildings or areas used for the storage of liquid or solid hazardous materials shall be provided with spill control and secondary contain­ment in accordance with Sections 5004.2.1 through 5004.2.3. 
Exception: Outdoor storage of containers on approved containment pallets in accordance with Section 5004.2.3. 
5004.2.1 Spill control for hazardous material liquids. Rooms, buildings or areas used for the storage of hazard­ous material liquids in individual vessels having a capacity of more than 55 gallons (208 L), or in which the aggregate capacity of multiple vessels exceeds 1,000 gallons (3785 L), shall be provided with spill control to prevent the flow of liquids to adjoining areas. Floors in indoor locations and similar surfaces in outdoor locations shall be con­structed to contain a spill from the largest single vessel by one of the following methods: 
1. 	
Liquid-tight sloped or recessed floors in indoor loca­tions or similar areas in outdoor locations. 

2. 	
Liquid-tight floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations provided with liquid-tight raised or recessed sills or dikes. 

3. 	
Sumps and collection systems. 

4. 
Other approved engineered systems. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Except for surfacing, the floors, sills, dikes, sumps and collection systems shall be constructed of noncombustible material, and the liquid-tight seal shall be compatible with the material stored. When liquid-tight sills or dikes are provided, they are not required at perimeter openings hav­ing an open-grate trench across the opening that connects to an approved collection system. 
5004.2.2 Secondary containment for hazardous mate­rial liquids and solids. Where required by Table 5004.2.2 buildings, rooms or areas used for the storage of hazardous materials liquids or solids shall be provided with second­ary containment in accordance with this section when the capacity of an individual vessel or the aggregate capacity of multiple vessels exceeds the following: 
TABLE 5004.2.2 

1. 	
Liquids: Capacity of an individual vessel exceeds 55 gallons (208 L) or the aggregate capacity of multiple vessels exceeds 1,000 gallons (3785 L); and 

2. 	
Solids: Capacity of an individual vessel exceeds 550 pounds (250 kg) or the aggregate capacity of multi­ple vessels exceeds 10,000 pounds (4540 kg). 


5004.2.2.1 Containment and drainage methods. The building, room or area shall contain or drain the hazard­ous materials and fire protection water through the use of one of the following methods: 
1. 	Liquid-tight sloped or recessed floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations. 
REQUIRED SECONDARY CONTAINMENT-HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS STORAGE 

HAZARDOUS MATERIALs-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
2. 	
Liquid-tight floors in indoor locations or similar areas in outdoor locations provided with liquid­tight raised or recessed sills or dikes. 

3. 	
Sumps and collection systems. 

4. 	
Drainage systems leading to an approved loca­tion. 

5. 
Other approved engineered systems. 


5004.2.2.2 Incompatible materials. Incompatible materials used in open systems shall be separated from each other in the secondary containment system. 
5004.2.2.3 Indoor design. Secondary containment for indoor storage areas shall be designed to contain a spill from the largest vessel plus the design flow volume of fire protection water calculated to discharge from the fire-extinguishing system over the minimum required system design area or area of the room or area in which the storage is located, whichever is smaller. The con­tainment capacity shall be designed to contain the flow for a period of 20 minutes. 
5004.2.2.4 Outdoor design. Secondary containment for outdoor storage areas shall be designed to contain a spill from the largest individual vessel. If the area is open to rainfall, secondary containment shall be designed to include the volume of a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25-year storm and provisions shall be made to drain accumulations of groundwater and rain­water. 
5004.2.2.5 Monitoring. An approved monitoring method shall be provided to detect hazardous materials in the secondary containment system. The monitoring method is allowed to be visual inspection of the pri­mary or secondary containment, or other approved means. Where secondary containment is subject to the intrusion of water, a monitoring method for detecting water shall be provided. Where monitoring devices are provided, they shall be connected to approved visual or audible alarms. 
5004.2.2.6 Drainage system design. Drainage systems shall be in accordance with the California Plumbing Code and all of the following: 
1. 	
The slope of floors to drains in indoor locations, or similar areas in outdoor locations shall not be less than 1 percent. 

2. 	
Drains from indoor storage areas shall be sized to carry the volume of the fire protection water as determined by the design density discharged from the automatic fire-extinguishing system over the minimum required system design area or area of the room or area in which the storage is located, whichever is smaller. 

3. 	
Drains from outdoor storage areas shall be sized to carry the volume of the fire flow and the vol­ume of a 24-hour rainfall as determined by a 25­year storm. 

4. 	
Materials of construction for drainage systems shall be compatible with the materials stored. 


5. 	
Incompatible materials used in open systems shall be separated from each other in the drainage system. 

6. 	
Drains shall terminate in an approved location away from buildings, valves, means of egress, fire access roadways, adjoining property and storm drains. 



5004.2.3 Containment pallets. When used as an alterna­tive to spill control and secondary containment for outdoor storage in accordance with the exception in Section 5004.2, containment pallets shall comply with all of the following: 
1. 	
A liquid-tight sump accessible for visual inspection shall be provided. 

2. 	
The sump shall be designed to contain not less than 66 gallons (250 L). 

3. 	
Exposed surfaces shall be compatible with material stored. 

4. 	
Containment pallets shall be protected to prevent collection of rainwater within the sump. 



5004.3 Ventilation. Indoor storage areas and storage build­ings shall be provided with mechanical exhaust ventilation or natural ventilation where natural ventilation can be shown to be acceptable for the materials as stored. 
Exception: Storage areas for flammable solids complying with Chapter 59. 
5004.3.1 System requirements. Exhaust ventilation sys­tems shall comply with all of the following: 
1. 	
Installation shall be in accordance with the Califor­nia Mechanical Code. 

2. 	
Mechanical ventilation shall be at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s • m2)] of floor area over the storage area. 

3. 	
Systems shall operate continuously unless alterna­tive designs are approved. 

4. 	
A manual shutoff control shall be provided outside of the room in a position adjacent to the access door to the room or in an approved location. The switch shall be a break-glass or other approved type and shall be labeled: VENTILATION SYSTEM EMER­GENCY SHUTOFF. 


Exception: [For SFM] When exhaust systems con­taining explosive, corrosive, combustible, flamma­ble or highly toxic dusts, mists, fumes, vapors, or gases are 100 percent exhausted to the outside, an emergency ventilation system shutoff is not required. 
5. 	Exhaust ventilation shall be designed to consider the density of the potential fumes or vapors released. For fumes or vapors that are heavier than air, exhaust shall be taken from a point within 12 inches (305 mm) of the floor. For fumes or vapors that are lighter than air, exhaust shall be taken from a point within 12 inches (305 mm) of the highest point of the room. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6. 	
The location of both the exhaust and inlet air open­ings shall be designed to provide air movement across all portions of the floor or room to prevent the accumulation of vapors. 

7. 	
Exhaust air shall not be recirculated to occupied areas if the materials stored are capable of emitting hazardous vapors and contaminants have not been removed. Air contaminated with explosive or flam­mable vapors, fumes or dusts; flammable, highly toxic or toxic gases; or radioactive materials shall not be recirculated. 


5004.4 Separation of incompatible hazardous materials. Incompatible materials shall be separated in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
5004.5 Automatic sprinkler systems. Indoor storage areas and storage buildings shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Sec­tion 903.3 .1.1. The design of the sptinkler system shall not be less than that required for Ordinary Hazard Group 2 with a minimum design area of 3,000 square feet (279 m2). Where the materials or storage arrangement are required by other regulations to be provided with a higher level of sptinkler system protection, the higher level of sprinkler system protec­tion shall be provided. 
5004.6 Explosion control. Indoor storage rooms, areas and buildings shall be provided with explosion control in accor­dance with Section 911. 
5004.7 Standby or emergency power. Where mechanical ventilation, treatment systems, temperature control, alarm, detection or other electrically operated systems are required, such systems shall be provided with an emergency or standby power system in accordance with California Electrical Code and Section 604. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Mechanical ventilation for storage of Class IB and Class IC flammable and combustible liquids in closed containers not exceeding 61gallons (25 L) 
/2 
capacity. 

2. 	
Storage areas for Class 1 and 2 oxidizers. 

3. 
Storage areas for Class II, III, IV and V organic per­oxides. 

4. 	
Storage areas for asphyxiant, irritant and radioactive gases. 

5. 
For storage areas for highly toxic or toxic matetials, see Sections 6004.2.2.8 and 6004.3.4.2. 

6. 	
Standby power for mechanical ventilation, treatment systems and temperature control systems shall not be required where an approved fail-safe engineered system is installed. 


5004.8 Limit controls. Limit controls shall be provided in accordance with Sections 5004.8.1 and 5004.8.2. 
5004.8.1 Temperature control. Materials that must be kept at temperatures other than normal ambient tempera­tures to prevent a hazardous reaction shall be provided with an approved means to maintain the temperature within a safe range. Redundant temperature control equip­ment that will operate on failure of the primary tempera­ture control system shall be provided. Where approved, alternative means that prevent a hazardous reaction are allowed. 
5004.8.2 Pressure control. Stationary tanks and equip­ment containing hazardous material liquids that can gener­ate pressures exceeding design limits because of exposure fires or internal reaction shall have some form of construc­tion or other approved means that will relieve excessive internal pressure. The means of pressure relief shall vent to an approved location or to an exhaust scrubber or treat­ment system where required by Chapter 60. 
5004.9 Emergency alarm. An approved manual emergency alarm system shall be provided in buildings, rooms or areas used for storage of hazardous materials. Emergency alarm­initiating devices shall be installed outside of each interior exit or exit access door of storage buildings, rooms or areas. Activation of an emergency alarm-initiating device shall sound a local alarm to alert occupants of an emergency situa­tion involving hazardous materials. 
5004.10 Supervision and monitoring. Emergency alarm, detection and automatic fire-extinguishing systems required by Section 5004 shall be electrically supervised and moni­tored by an approved supervising station or, when approved, shall initiate an audible and visual signal at a constantly attended on-site location. 
5004.11 Clearance from combustibles. The area surround­ing an outdoor storage area or tank shall be kept clear of com­bustible materials and vegetation for a minimum distance of 25 feet (7620 mm). 
5004.12 Noncombustible floor. Except for surfacing, floors of storage areas shall be of noncombustible construction. 
5004.13 Weather protection. Where overhead noncombusti­ble construction is provided for shelteting outdoor hazardous material storage areas, such storage shall not be considered indoor storage when the area is constructed in accordance with the requirements for weather protection as required by the California Building Code. 
Exception: Storage of explosive materials shall be consid­ered as indoor storage. 
SECTION 5005 
USE, DISPENSING AND HANDLING 


5005.1 General. Use, dispensing and handling of hazardous matetials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5005. Use, dis­pensing and handling of hazardous materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 5001 and 5003. 
5005.1.1 Separation of incompatible materials. Separa­tion of incompatible materials shall be in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
5005.1.2 Noncombustible floor. Except for surfacing, floors of areas where liquid or solid hazardous materials are dispensed or used in open systems shall be of noncom­bustible, liquid-tight construction. 
5005.1.3 Spill control and secondary containment for hazardous material liquids. Where required by other provisions of Section 5005, spill control and secondary containment shall be provided for hazardous material liq­uids in accordance with Section 5004.2. 
5005.1.4 Limit controls. Limit controls shall be provided in accordance with Sections 5005 .1.4.1 through 5005 .1.4.4. 
5005.1.4.1 High-liquid-level control. Open tanks in which liquid hazardous materials are used shall be equipped with a liquid-level limit control or other means to prevent overfilling of the tank. 
5005.1.4.2 Low-liquid-level control. Approved safe­guards shall be provided to prevent a low-liquid level in a tank from creating a hazardous condition, including but not limited to, overheating of a tank or its contents. 
5005.1.4.3 Temperature control. Temperature control shall be provided in accordance with Section 5004.8.1. 
5005.1.4.4 Pressure control. Pressure control shall be 
provided in accordance with Section 5004.8.2. 5005.1.5 Standby or emergency power. Where mechani­cal ventilation, treatment systems, temperature control, manual alarm, detection or other electrically operated sys­tems are required, such systems shall be provided with an emergency or standby power system in accordance with California Electrical Code and Section 604. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Standby power for mechanical ventilation, treat­ment systems and temperature control systems shall not be required where an approved fail-safe engineered system is installed. 

2. 	
Systems for highly toxic or toxic gases shall be provided with emergency power in accordance with Sections 6004.2.2.8 and 6004.3.4.2. 


5005.1.6 Supervision and monitoring. Manual alarm, detection and automatic fire-extinguishing systems required by other provisions of Section 5005 shall be elec­trically supervised and monitored by an approved supervi­sory service or, when approved, shall initiate an audible and visual signal at a constantly attended on-site location. 
5005.1.7 Lighting. Adequate lighting by natural or artifi­cial means shall be provided. 
5005.1.8 Fire-extinguishing systems. Indoor rooms or areas in which hazardous materials are dispensed or used shall be protected by an automatic fire-extinguishing sys­tem in accordance with Chapter 9. Sprinkler system design shall not be less than that required for Ordinary Hazard, Group 2, with a minimum design area of 3,000 square feet (279 m2). Where the materials or storage arrangement are required by other regulations to be provided with a higher level of sprinkler system protection, the higher level of sprinkler system protection shall be provided. 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS-GENERAL PROVISIONS 

5005.1.9 Ventilation. Indoor dispensing and use areas shall be provided with exhaust ventilation in accordance with Section 5004.3. 
Exception: Ventilation is not required for dispensing and use of flammable solids other than finely divided particles. 

5005.1.10 Liquid transfer. Liquids having a hazard rank­ing of 3 or 4 in accordance with NFP A 704 shall be trans­ferred by one of the following methods: 
1. 	
From safety cans complying with UL 30. 

2. 
Through an approved closed piping system. 

3. 	
From containers or tanks by an approved pump tak­ing suction through an opening in the top of the con­tainer or tank. 

4. 
From containers 	or tanks by gravity through an approved self-closing or automatic-closing valve when the container or tank and dispensing opera­tions are provided with spill control and secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2. Highly toxic liquids shall not be dispensed by grav­ity from tanks. 

5. 	
Approved engineered liquid transfer systems. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	Liquids having a hazard ranking of 4 when dis­pensed from approved containers not exceeding 
1.3 
gallons (5 L). 

2. 	
Liquids having a hazard ranking of 3 when dis­pensed from approved containers not exceeding 



5.3 gallons (20 L). 5005.1.11 Design. Systems shall be suitable for the use intended and shall be designed by persons competent in such design. Controls shall be designed to prevent materi­als from entering or leaving the process or reaction system at other than the intended time, rate or path. Where failure 
of an automatic control could result in a dangerous condi­tion or reaction, the automatic control shall be fail-safe. 
5005.2 Indoor dispensing and use. Indoor dispensing and use of hazardous materials shall be in buildings complying with the California Building Code and in accordance with Section 5005.1 and Sections 5005.2.1 through 5005.2.2.4. 
5005.2.1 Open systems. Dispensing and use of hazardous materials in open containers or systems shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5005.2.1.1 through 5005.2.1.4. 
5005.2.1.1 Ventilation. Where gases, liquids or solids having a hazard ranking of 3 or 4 in accordance with NFP A 704 are dispensed or used, mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided to capture gases, fumes, mists or vapors at the point of generation. 
Exception: Gases, liquids or solids that can be dem­onstrated not to create harmful gases, fumes, mists or vapors. 
5005.2.1.2 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be provided in accordance with Section 5004.6 when an explosive environment can occur because of the char­acteristics or nature of the hazardous materials dis­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
pensed or used, or as a result of the dispensing or use process. 
5005.2.1.3 Spill control for hazardous material liq­uids. Buildings, rooms or areas where hazardous mate­rial liquids are dispensed into vessels exceeding a 1.3­gallon (5 L) capacity or used in open systems exceed­ing a 5.3-gallon (20 L) capacity shall be provided with spill control in accordance with Section 5004.2.1. 
5005.2.1.4 Secondary containment for hazardous material liquids. Where required by Table 5005.2.1.4, buildings, rooms or areas where hazardous material liq­uids are dispensed or used in open systems shall be pro­vided with secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2.2 when the capacity of an individual vessel or system or the capacity of multiple vessels or systems exceeds the following: 
1. 	
Individual vessel or system: greater than 1.3 gal­lons (5 L). 

2. 	
Multiple vessels or systems: greater than 5.3 gal­


lons (20 L). 5005.2.2 Closed systems. Use of hazardous materials in closed containers or systems shall be in accordance with Sections 5005.2.2.1 through 5005.2.2.4. 
5005.2.2.1 Ventilation. Where closed systems are designed to be opened as part of normal operations, ventilation shall be provided in accordance with Sec­tion 5005.2.1.1. 
TABLE 5005.2.1.4 
REQUIRED SECONDARY CONTAINMENT-HAZARDOUS MATERIAL LIQUIDS USE 

MATERIAL  INDOOR LIQUIDS USE  OUTDOOR LIQUIDS USE  
1. Physical-hazard materials  
Combustible liquids  Class II  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
Class IliA  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
Class IIIB  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
Cryogenic fluids  See Chapter 55  See Chapter 55  
Explosives  See Chapter 56  See Chapter 56  
Flammable liquids  Class IA  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
Class IB  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
ClassIC  See Chapter 57  See Chapter 57  
Flammable solids  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  
Organic peroxides  Unclassified Detonable  Required  Required  
Class I  Required  Required  
Class II  
Class III  
Class IV  
Class V  Not Required  Not Required  
Oxidizers  Class 4  Required  Required  
Class 3  
Class 2  
Class 1  
Pyrophorics  Required  Required  
Unstable (reactives)  Class 4  Required  Required 
Class 3  
Class 2  
Class 1  Not Required  Required  
Water reactives  Class 3  Required  Required 
Class 2  
Class 1  Not Required  Required  
2. Health-hazard materials  
Corrosives  Required  Required 
Highly toxics  
Toxics  

5005.2.2.2 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be provided in accordance with Section 5004.6 where an explosive environment exists because of the hazard­ous materials dispensed or used, or as a result of the dispensing or use process. 
Exception: Where process vessels are designed to contain fully the worst-case explosion anticipated within the vessel under process conditions based on the most likely failure. 
5005.2.2.3 Spill control for hazardous material liq­uids. Buildings, rooms or areas where hazardous mate­rial liquids are used in individual vessels exceeding a 55-gallon (208 L) capacity shall be provided with spill control in accordance with Section 5004.2.1. 
5005.2.2.4 Secondary containment for hazardous material liquids. Where required by Table 5005.2.1.4, buildings, rooms or areas where hazardous material liq­uids are used in vessels or systems shall be provided with secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2.2 when the capacity of an individual vessel or system or the capacity of multiple vessels or systems exceeds the following: 
1. 	
Individual vessel or system: greater than 55 gal­lons (208 L). 

2. 	
Multiple vessels or systems: greater than 1,000 gallons (3785 L). 



5005.3 Outdoor dispensing and use. Dispensing and use of hazardous materials outdoors shall be in accordance with Sections 5005.3.1 through 5005.3.9. 
5005.3.1 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. Outdoor dispensing or use of hazardous materials, in either closed or open containers or systems, in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Tables 5003.1.1(3) and 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001,5003, 5005.1 and 5005.3. 
5005.3.2 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area. Outdoor dispensing or use of hazardous materials, in either closed or open con­tainers or systems, in amounts not exceeding the maxi­mum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Tables 5003.1.1 (3) and 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001 and 5003. 
5005.3.3 Location. Outdoor dispensing and use areas for hazardous materials shall be located as required for out­door storage in accordance with Section 5004. 
5005.3.4 Spill control for hazardous material liquids in open systems. Outdoor areas where hazardous material liquids are dispensed in vessels exceeding a 1.3-gallon (5 L) capacity or used in open systems exceeding a 5.3-gal­lon (20 L) capacity shall be provided with spill control in accordance with Section 5004.2.1. 
5005.3.5 Secondary containment for hazardous mate­rial liquids in open systems. Where required by Table 5005 .2.1.4, outdoor areas where hazardous material liq­uids are dispensed or used in open systems shall be pro-
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS-GENERAL PROVISIONS 

vided with secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2.2 when the capacity of an individual vessel or system or the capacity of multiple vessels or systems exceeds the following: 
1. 	
Individual vessel or system: greater than 1.3 gallons (5 L). 

2. 
Multiple vessels or systems: greater than 5.3 gallons (20 L). 



5005.3.6 Spill control for hazardous material liquids in closed systems. Outdoor areas where hazardous material liquids are used in closed systems exceeding 55 gallons (208 L) shall be provided with spill control in accordance with Section 5004.2.1. 
5005.3.7 Secondary containment for hazardous mate­rial liquids in closed systems. Where required by Table 5005.2.1.4, outdoor areas where hazardous material liq­uids are dispensed or used in closed systems shall be pro­vided with secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2.2 when the capacity of an individual vessel or system or the capacity of multiple vessels or systems exceeds the following: 
1. 	
Individual vessel or system: greater than 55 gallons (208 L). 

2. 	
Multiple vessels or systems: greater than 1,000 gal­lons (3785 L). 



5005.3.8 Clearance from combustibles. The area sur­rounding an outdoor dispensing or use area shall be kept clear of combustible materials and vegetation for a mini­mum distance of 30 feet (9144 mm). 
5005.3.9 Weather protection. Where overhead noncom­bustible construction is provided for sheltering outdoor hazardous material use areas, such use shall not be consid­ered indoor use when the area is constructed in accordance with the requirements for weather protection as required in the California Building Code. 
Exception: Use of explosive materials shall be consid­ered as indoor use. 

5005.4 Handling. Handling of hazardous materials shall be in accordance with Sections 5005.4.1 through 5005.4.4. 
5005.4.1 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. Handling of hazardous materi­als in indoor and outdoor locations in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indi­cated in Tables 5003.1.1 ( 1) through 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005.1 and 5005.4. 
5005.4.2 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area. Handling of hazardous materials in indoor locations in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Tables 5003.1.1(1) and 5003.1.1(2) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5005.1. Handling of hazard­ous materials in outdoor locations in amounts not exceed­ing the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Tables 5003.1.1(3) and 5003.1.1(4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001 and 5003. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5005.4.3 Location. Outdoor handling areas for hazardous materials shall be located as required for outdoor storage in accordance with Section 5004. 
5005.4.4 Dispensing, use and handling. Where hazard­ous materials having a hazard ranking of 3 or 4 in accor­dance with NFPA 704 are transported through corridors, interior exit stairways or ramps or exit passageways, there shall be an emergency telephone system, a local manual alarm station or an approved alarm-initiating device at not more than 150-foot (45 720 mm) intervals and at each exit and exit access doorway throughout the transport route. The signal shall be relayed to an approved central, proprie­tary or remote station service or constantly attended on­site location and shall also initiate a local audible alarm. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER51-AEROSOLS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD 1 2 3 4  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  
Adopt Entire Chapter  X  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  


. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DivisiOn 1 provisiOns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 51 
AEROSOLS 
SECTION 5101 
GENERAL 


5101.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter, the California Building Code and NFP A 30B shall apply to the manufactur­ing, storage and display of aerosol products. Manufacturing of aerosol products using hazardous materials shall also com­ply with Chapter 50. 
5101.2 Permit required. Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 105.6. 
5101.3 Material Safety Data Sheets. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) information for aerosol products displayed shall be kept on the premises at an approved location. 
SECTION 51 02 
DEFINITIONS 

5102.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chapter 2: 
AEROSOL. 
Level 1 aerosol products. 
Level 2 aerosol products. 
Level 3 aerosol products. 
AEROSOL CONTAINER. 

AEROSOL WAREHOUSE. 
PROPELLANT. 
RETAIL DISPLAY AREA. 
SECTION 5103 
CLASSIFICATION OF AEROSOL PRODUCTS 


5103.1 Classification levels. Aerosol products shall be clas­sified as Levell, 2 or 3 in accordance with Table 5103.1 and NFPA 30B. Aerosol products in cartons which are not identi­fied in accordance with this section shall be classified as Level3. 
TABLE 5103.1 
CLASSIFICATION OF AEROSOL PRODUCTS 


CHEMICAL HEAT OF COMBUSTION  AEROSOL CLASSIFICATION 
Greater than (Btullb)  Less than or equal to (Btullb)  
0  8,600  1  
8,600  13,000  2  
13,000  - 3  

For SI: 1 British thennal unit per pound =0.002326 kJ/g. 5103.2 Identification. Cartons shall be identified on at least one side with the classification level of the aerosol products contained within the carton as follows: LEVEL ___ AEROSOLS 
SECTION 51 04 
INSIDE STORAGE OF AEROSOL PRODUCTS 


5104.1 General. The inside storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products shall comply with Sections 5104.2 through 5104.7 and NFPA 30B. Levell aerosol products shall be considered equivalent to a Class III commodity and shall comply with the requirements for palletized or rack storage in NFP A 13. 
5104.2 Storage in Groups A, B, E, F, I and R. Storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products in occupancies in Groups A, B, E, F, I and R shall be limited to the following maximum quantities: 
1. 	
A net weight of 1,000 pounds ( 454 kg) of Level 2 aero­sol products. 

2. 	
A net weight of 500 pounds (227 kg) of Level 3 aerosol products. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3. 	A combined net weight of 1,000 pounds (454 kg) of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products. 
The maximum quantity shall be increased 100 percent where the excess quantity is stored in storage cabinets in accordance with Section 5704.3.2. 
5104.2.1 Excess storage. Storage of quantities exceeding the maximum quantities indicated in Section 5104.2 shall be stored in separate inside flammable liquid storage rooms in accordance with Section 5104.5. 
5104.3 Storage in general purpose warehouses. Aerosol storage in general purpose warehouses utilized only for ware­housing-type operations involving mixed commodities shall comply with Section 5104.3.1 or 5104.3.2. 
5104.3.1 Nonsegregated storage. Storage consisting of solid pile, palletized or rack storage of Level 2 and 3 aero­sol products not segregated into areas utilized exclusively for the storage of aerosols shall comply with Table 5104.3.1. 
TABLE 5104.3.1 
NONSEGREGATED STORAGE OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOL 
PRODUCTS IN GENERAL PURPOSE WAREHOUSESb 


AEROSOL LEVEL  MAXIMUM NET WEIGHT PER FLOOR (pounds)b  
Palletlzed or solid-pile storage  Rack storage  
Unprotected  Protected'  Unprotected  Protected'  
2  2,500  12,000  2,500  24,000  
3  1,000  12,000  1,000  24,000  
Combination 2 and 3  2,500  12,000  2,500  24,000  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 pound = 0.454 kg, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2• 
a. 	
Approved automatic sprinkler system protection and storage arrangements shall comply with NFPA 30B. Sprinkler system protection shall extend 20 feet beyond the storage area containing the aerosol products. 

b. 	
Storage quantities indicated are the maximum permitted in any 50,000­square-foot area. 


5104.3.2 Segregated storage. Storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products segregated into areas utilized exclusively for the storage of aerosols shall comply with Table 5104.3.2 and Sections 5104.3.2.1 and 5104.3.2.2. 
5104.3.2.1 Chain-link fence enclosures. Chain-link fence enclosures required by Table 5104.3.2 shall com­ply with the following: 
1. 	
The fence shall not be less than No. 9 gage steel wire, woven into a maximum 2-inch (51 mm) diamond mesh. 

2. 	
The fence shall be installed from the floor to the underside of the roof or ceiling above. 

3. 	
Class IV and high-hazard commodities shall be stored outside of the aerosol storage area and a minimum of 8 feet (2438 mm) from the fence. 

4. 	
Access openings in the fence shall be provided with either self-or automatic-closing devices or a labyrinth opening arrangement preventing aero­sol containers from rocketing through the access openings. 



5. Not less than two means of egress shall be pro­vided from the fenced enclosure. 
TABLE 5104.3.2 
SEGREGATED STORAGE OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOL 
PRODUCTS IN GENERAL PURPOSE WAREHOUSES 


STORAGE  MAXIMUM SEGREGATED STORAGE AREA'  SPRINKLER REQUIREMENTS 
SEPARATION  Percentage of building area (percent)  Area limitation (square feet)  
Separation areae, 1  15  20,000  Notes b, c  
Chain-link fence enclosurect  20  20,000  Notes b, c  
1-hour fire-resistance-rated interior walls  20  30,000  Note b  
2-hourfire-resistance-rated interior walls  25  40,000  Noteb  
3-hour fire-resistance-rated interior walls  30  50,000  Note b  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2• 
a. 	
The maximum segregated storage area shall be limited to the smaller of the two areas resulting from the percentage of building area limitation and the area limitation. 

b. 	
Automatic sprinkler system protection in aerosol product storage areas shall comply with NFPA 30B and be approved. Building areas not containing aerosol product storage shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 


903.3.1.1. 
c. 	
Automatic sprinkler system protection in aerosol product storage areas shall comply with NFPA 30B and be approved. Sprinkler system protection shall extend a minimum 20 feet beyond the aerosol storage area. 

d. 
Chain-link fence enclosures shall comply with Section 5104.3.2.1. 

e. 	
A separation area shall be defined as an area extending outward from the periphery of the segregated aerosol product storage area as follows. 


1. 	
The limits of the aerosol product storage shall be clearly marked on the floor. 

2. 	
The separation distance shall be a minimum of 25 feet and maintained clear of all materials with a commodity classification greater than Class III in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 


f. 	Separation areas shall only be permitted where approved. 
5104.3.2.2 Aisles. The minimum aisle requirements for 
segregated storage in general purpose warehouses shall 
comply with Table 5104.3.2.2. 
TABLE 5104.3.2.2 
SEGREGATED STORAGE AISLE WIDTHS AND DISTANCE TO 
AISLES IN GENERAL PURPOSE WAREHOUSES 

STORAGE CONDITION  MINIMUM AISLE WIDTH (feet)  MAXIMUM DISTANCE FROM STORAGE TO AISLE (feet)  
Solid pile or palletized"  4 feet between piles  25  
Racks with ESFR sprinklers"  4 feet between racks and adjacent Level 2 and 3 aerosol product storage  25  
Racks without ESFR sprinklers"  8 feet between racks and adjacent Level 2 and 3 aerosol product storage  25  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. Sprinklers shall comply with NFPA 30B. 
5104.4 Storage in aerosol warehouses. The total quantity of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products in a warehouse utilized for the storage, shipping and receiving of aerosol products shall not be restricted in structures complying with Sections 5104.4.1 through 5104.4.4. 
5104.4.1 Automatic sprinkler system. Aerosol ware­houses shall be protected by an approved wet-pipe auto­matic sprinkler system in accordance with NFPA 30B. Sprinkler protection shall be designed based on the highest classification level of aerosol product present. 
5104.4.2 Pile and palletized storage aisles. Solid pile and palletized storage shall be arranged so the maximum travel distance to an aisle is 25 feet (7620 mm). Aisles shall have a minimum width of 4 feet (1219 mm). 
5104.4.3 Rack storage aisles. Rack storage shall be arranged with a minimum aisle width of 8 feet (2438 mm) between rows of racks and 8 feet (2438 mm) between racks and adjacent solid pile or palletized storage. Where early suppression fast-response (ESFR) sprinklers provide automatic sprinkler protection, the minimum aisle width shall be 4 feet (1219 mm). 
5104.4.4 Combustible commodities. Combustible com­modities other than flammable and combustible liquids shall be permitted to be stored in an aerosol warehouse. 
Exception: Flammable and combustible liquids in 1­quart (946 mL) metal containers and smaller shall be permitted to be stored in an aerosol warehouse. 

5104.5 Storage in inside flammable liquid storage rooms. Inside flammable liquid storage rooms shall comply with Section 5704.3.7. The maximum quantities of aerosol prod­ucts shall comply with Section 5104.5.1 or 5104.5.2. 
5104.5.1 Storage rooms of 500 square feet or less. The storage of aerosol products in flammable liquid storage rooms less than or equal to 500 square feet ( 46 m2) in area shall not exceed the following quantities: 
1. 	
A net weight of 1,000 pounds ( 454 kg) of Level 2 aerosol products. 

2. 	
A net weight of 500 pounds (227 kg) of Level 3 aerosol products. 

3. 
A combined net weight of 1,000 pounds (454 kg) of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products. 


5104.5.2 Storage rooms greater than 500 square feet. The storage of aerosol products in flammable liquid stor­age rooms greater than 500 square feet ( 46 m2) in area shall not exceed the following quantities: 
1. 	A net weight of 2,500 pounds (1135 kg) of Level 2 aerosol products. 
AEROSOLS 
2. 	
A net weight of 1,000 pounds ( 454 kg) of Level 3 aerosol products. 

3. 
A combined net weight of 2,500 pounds (1135 kg) of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products. 



The maximum aggregate storage quantity of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products permitted in separate inside storage rooms protected by an approved automatic sprinkler sys­tem in accordance with NFPA 30B shall be 5,000 pounds (2270 kg). 
5104.6 Storage in liquid warehouses. The storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products in liquid warehouses shall comply with NFPA 30B. The storage shall be located within segre­gated storage areas in accordance with Section 5104.3.2 and Sections 5104.6.1 through 5104.6.3. 
5104.6.1 Containment. Spill control or drainage shall be provided to prevent the flow of liquid to within 8 feet (2438 mm) of the segregated storage area. 
5104.6.2 Sprinkler design. Sprinkler protection shall be designed based on the highest level of aerosol product present. 
5104.6.3 Opening protection into segregated storage areas. Fire doors or gates opening into the segregated stor­age area shall either be self-closing or provided with auto­matic-closing devices activated by sprinkler water flow or an approved fire detection system. 
5104.7 Storage in Group M occupancies. Storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products in occupancies in Group M shall comply with Table 5104.7. Retail display shall comply with Section 5106. 
TABLE 5104.7 
MAXIMUM QUANTITIES OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOL 
PRODUCTS IN RETAIL STORAGE AREAS 


MAXIMUM NET WEIGHT PER FLOOR (pounds)  
Floor  Nonsegregated storage'·b  Segregated storage  
Storage cabinetsb  Separated from retail area•  
Basement  Not Permitted  Not Permitted  Not Permitted  
Ground floor  2,500  5,000  Noted  
Upper floors  500  1,000  Noted  

For SI: 1 pound= 0.454 kg, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2• 
a. 	
The total aggregate quantity on display and in storage shall not exceed the maximum retail display quantity indicated in Section 5106.3. 

b. 
Storage quantities indicated are the maximum permitted in any 50,000­square-foot area. 

c. 	
The storage area shall be separated from the retail area with a !-hour fire­resistance-rated assembly. 

d. 
See Table 5104.3.2. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 5105 
OUTSIDE STORAGE 


5105.1 General. The outside storage of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products, including storage in temporary storage trailers, shall be separated from exposures in accordance with Table 5105.1. 
TABLE 5105.1 
DISTANCE TO EXPOSURES FOR OUTSIDE STORAGE 
OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOL PRODUCTS 


EXPOSURE  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM AEROSOL STORAGE (feet)"  
Public alleys, public ways, public streets  20  
Buildings  50  
Exit discharge to a public way  50  
Lot lines  20  
Other outside storage  50  

For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 	The minimum separation distance indicated is not required where exterior walls having a 2-hour fire-resistance rating without penetrations separate the storage from the exposure. The walls shall extend not less than 30 inches above and to the sides of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products. 
SECTION 5106 
RETAIL DISPLAY 


5106.1 General. This section shall apply to the retail display of 500 pounds (227 kg) or more of Level 2 and 3 aerosol products. 
5106.2 Aerosol display and normal merchandising not exceeding 8 feet (2438 mm) high. Aerosol display and nor­mal merchandising not exceeding 8 feet (2438 mm) in height shall be in accordance with Sections 5106.2.1 through 5106.2.4. 
5106.2.1 Maximum quantities in retail display areas. Aerosol products in retail display areas shall not exceed quantities needed for display and normal merchandising and shall not exceed the quantities in Table 51 06.2.1. 
TABLE 5106.2.1 
MAXIMUM QUANTITIES OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOL 
PRODUCTS IN RETAIL DISPLAY AREAS 


MAXIMUM NET WEIGHT PER FLOOR (pounds)"  
Floor  Unprotected"  Protected in accordance with Section 51 06.2"· •  Protected in accordance with Section 51 os.a•  
Basement  Not allowed  500  500  
Ground  2,500  10,000  10,000  
Upper  500  2,000  Not allowed  

For SI: 1 pound= 0.454 kg, I square foot= 0.0929 m2• 
a. 	
The total quantity shall not exceed 1,000 pounds net weight in any one 1 00-square-foot retail display area. 

b. 
Per 25,000-square-foot retail display area. 

c. 	
Minimum Ordinary Hazard Group 2 wet-pipe automatic sptinkler system throughout the retail sales occupancy. 


5106.2.2 Display of containers. Level 2 and 3 aerosol containers shall not be stacked more than 6 feet (1829 mm) high from the base of the aerosol array to the top of the aerosol array unless the containers are placed on fixed shelving or otherwise secured in an approved manner. When storage or retail display is on shelves, the height of such storage or retail display to the top of aerosol contain­ers shall not exceed 8 feet (2438 mm). 
5106.2.3 Combustible cartons. Aerosol products located in retail display areas shall be removed from combustible cartons. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Display areas that use a portion of combustible cartons that consist of only the bottom panel and not more than 2 inches (51 mm) of the side panel are allowed. 

2. 	
When the display area is protected in accordance with Tables 6.3.2.7(a) through 6.3.2.7(1) of NFPA 30B, storage of aerosol products in com­bustible cartons is allowed. 


5106.2.4 Retail display automatic sprinkler system. When an automatic sprinkler system is required for the protected retail display of aerosol products, the wet-pipe automatic sprinkler system shall be in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The minimum system design shall be for an Ordinary Hazard Group 2 occupancy. The system shall be provided throughout the retail display area. 
5106.3 Aerosol display and normal merchandising exceeding 8 feet (2438 mm) high. Aerosol display and mer­chandising exceeding 8 feet in height shall be in accordance with Sections 5106.3.1 through 5106.3.3. 
5106.3.1 Maximum quantities in retail display areas. Aerosol products in retail display areas shall not exceed quantities needed for display and normal merchandising and shall not exceed the quantities in Table 5106.2.1, with fire protection in accordance with Section 5106.3.2. 
5106.3.2 Automatic sprinkler protection. Aerosol dis­play and merchandising areas shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system based on the requirements set forth in Tables 6.3.2.7(a) through 6.3.2.7(1) of NFPA 30B and the following: 
1. 	
Protection shall be based on the highest level of aerosol product in the array and the packaging method of the storage located more than 6 feet (1829 mm) above the finished floor. 

2. 	
When using the cartoned aerosol tables of NFP A 30B, uncartoned or display-cut Level 2 and 3 aero­sols shall be permitted not more than 6 feet (1829 mm) above the finished floor. 

3. 	
The design area for Level 2 and 3 aerosols shall extend not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) beyond the Level 2 and 3 aerosol display and merchandising areas. 

4. 
Where ordinary and high-temperature ceiling sprin­kler systems are adjacent to each other, noncombus­tible draft curtains shall be installed at the interface. 


AEROSOLS 
5106.3.3 Separation of Level2 and 3 aerosol areas. Sep­aration of Level 2 and 3 aerosol areas shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
Level 2 and 3 aerosol display and merchandising areas shall be separated from each other by not less than 25 feet (7620 mm). Also see Table 5106.2.1. 

2. 	
Level 2 and 3 aerosol display and merchandising areas shall be separated from flammable and com­bustible liquids storage and display areas by one or a combination of the following: 


2.1. Segregating areas from each other by hori­zontal distance of not less than 25 feet (7620 mm). 
2.2. Isolating areas from each other by a noncom­bustible partition extending not less than 18 inches (457 mm) above the merchandise. 
2.3. 
In accordance with Section 5106.5. 

3. 	
When Item 2.2 above is used to separate Level2 or 3 aerosols from flammable or combustible liquids, and the aerosol products are located within 25 feet (7620 mm) of flammable or combustible liquids, the area below the noncombustible partition shall be liquid tight at the floor to prevent spilled liquids from flowing beneath the aerosol products. 



5106.4 Maximum quantities in storage areas. Aerosol products in storage areas adjacent to retail display areas shall not exceed the quantities in Table 5106.4. 
5106.5 Special protection design for Level 2 and 3 aerosols adjacent to flammable and combustible liquids in double­row racks. The display and merchandising of Level 2 and 3 aerosols adjacent to flammable and combustible liquids in double-row racks shall be in accordance with Sections 5106.5.1 through 5106.5.8 or Section 5106.3.3. 
5106.5.1 Fire protection. Fire protection for the display and merchandising of Level 2 and 3 aerosols in double­row racks shall be in accordance with Table 7.4.1 and Fig­ure 7.4.1 ofNFPA 30B. 
5106.5.2 Cartoned products. Level 2 and 3 aerosols dis­played or merchandised more than 8 feet (2438 mm) above the finished floor shall be in cartons. 
5106.5.3 Shelving. Shelving in racks shall be limited to wire mesh shelving having uniform openings not more than 6 inches (152 mm) apart, with the openings compris­ing at least 50 percent of the overall shelf area. 
5106.5.4 Aisles. Racks shall be arranged so that aisles not less than 71feet (2286 mm) wide are maintained between 
/2 

rows of racks and adjacent solid-piled or palletized mer­chandise. 
5106.5.5 Flue spaces. Flue spaces in racks shall comply with the following: 
1. 	
Transverse flue spaces-Nominal 3-inch (76 mm) transverse flue spaces shall be maintained between merchandise and rack uprights. 

2. 	
Longitudinal flue spaces-Nominal 6-inch (152 mm) longitudinal flue spaces shall be maintained. 



5106.5.6 Horizontal barriers. Horizontal barriers con­structed of minimum 3/ 8-inch-thick (10 mm) plywood or minimum 0.034-inch (0.086 mm) (No. 22 gage) sheet metal shall be provided and located in accordance with Table 7.4.1 and Figure 7.4.1 of NFPA 30B when in-rack sprinklers are installed. 
5106.5.7 Class I, II, III, IV and plastic commodities. Class I, II, III, IV and plastic commodities located adja­cent to Level 2 and 3 aerosols shall be protected in accor­dance with NFPA 13. 
5106.5.8 Flammable and combustible liquids. Class I, II, III A and III B Liquids shall be allowed to be located adjacent to Level 2 and 3 aerosol products when the fol­lowing conditions are met: 
1. 	
Class I, II, IliA and IIIB liquid containers: Contain­ers for Class I, II, IliA and IIIB liquids shall be lim­ited to 1.06-gallon (4 L) metal-relieving and nonrelieving style containers and 5.3-gallon (20 L) metal-relieving style containers, and 

2. 	
Fire protection for Class I, II, IliA and IIIB Liquids: Automatic sprinkler protection for Class I, II, IliA and IIIB liquids shall be in accordance with Chapter 


57. 
SECTION 5107 
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES 


5107.1 General. Manufacturing facilities shall be in accor­dance with NFPA 30B. 
TABLE 5106.4 
MAXIMUM STORAGE QUANTITIES FOR STORAGE AREAS ADJACENT TO RETAIL DISPLAY OF LEVEL 2 AND 3 AEROSOLS 


MAXIMUM NET WEIGHT PER FLOOR (pounds)  
Floor  Unseparated•·b  Storage Cabinetsb  Separated 1-hour Occupancy Separation  
Basement  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  
Ground  2,500  5,000  In accordance with Sections 6.3.4.3 and 6.3.4.4 of NFPA 30B  
Upper  500  1,000  In accordance with Sections 6.3.4.3 and 6.3.4.4 of NFPA 30B  

For SI: I pound= 0.454 kg, I square foot= 0.0929 nl. 
a. 
The aggregate quantity in storage and retail display shall not exceed the quantity limits for retail display. 

b. 
In any 50,000-square-foot area. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 52-COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1 2 1/AC HCD  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

..
...

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provJSJons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 52 
COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS 
SECTION 5201 5203.4 Agricultural products. Hay, straw, seed cotton or GENERAL similar agricultural products shall not be stored adjacent to structures or combustible materials unless a clear horizontal 
5201.1 Scope. The equipment, processes and operations distance equal to the height of a pile is maintained between involving combustible fibers shall comply with this chapter. 
such storage and structures or combustible materials. Storage 5201.2 Applicability. Storage of combustible fibers in any shall be limited to stacks of 100 tons (91 metric tons) each. quantity shall comply with this section. Stacks shall be separated by a minimum of 20 feet (6096 mm) 
of clear space. Quantities of hay, straw, seed cotton and other 5201.3 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­agricultural products shall not be limited where stored in or tion 105.6. 
near farm structures located outside closely built areas. A per­mit shall not be required for agricultural storage. 
5203.5 Dust collection. Where located within a building, 
SECTION 5202 

equipment or machinery which generates or emits combusti­
DEFINITIONS 

ble fibers shall be provided with an approved dust-collecting 5202.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­and exhaust system. Such systems shall comply with the Cal­ter 2: 
ifornia Mechanical Code. 	< 
BALED COTTON. 	5203.6 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguish­ers shall be provided in accordance with Section 906 as
BALED COTTON, DENSELY PACKED. 
required for extra-hazard occupancy protection as indicated COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS. in Table 906.3(1). 
SEED COTTON. 
SECTION 5204 LOOSE FIBER STORAGE SECTION 5203 

5204.1 General. Loose combustible fibers, not in suitable 
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS 

bales or packages and whether housed or in the open, shall 5203.1 Use of combustible receptacles. Ashes, waste, rub­not be stored within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of any structure, bish or sweepings shall not be placed in wood or other com­except as indicated in this chapter. 
bustible receptacles and shall be removed daily from the 5204.2 Storage of 100 cubic feet or less. Loose combustible structure. 
fibers in quantities of not more than 100 cubic feet (3 m3) 5203.2 Vegetation. Grass or weeds shall not be allowed to located in a structure shall be stored in a metal or metal-lined accumulate at any point on the premises. bin equipped with a self-closing cover. 
5203.3 Clearances. A minimum clearance of 3 feet (914 5204.3 Storage of more than 100 cubic feet to 500 cubic mm) shall be maintained between automatic sprinklers and feet. Loose combustible fibers in quantities exceeding 100 the top of piles. cubic feet (3 m3) but not exceeding 500 cubic feet (14 m3) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	397 
shall be stored in rooms enclosed with 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accor­dance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both, with openings protected by an approved opening pro­tective assembly having a fire protection rating of 3/ 4 hour in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5204.4 Storage of more than 500 cubic feet to 1,000 cubic feet. Loose combustible fibers in quantities exceeding 500 cubic feet (14m3) but not exceeding 1,000 cubic feet (28m3) shall be stored in rooms enclosed with 2-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accor­dance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both, with openings protected by an approved opening pro­tective assembly having a fire protection rating of 11/ 2 hours in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5204.5 Storage of more than 1,000 cubic feet. Loose com­bustible fibers in quantities exceeding 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3) shall be stored in rooms enclosed with 2-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accor­dance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both, with openings protected by an approved opening pro­tective assembly having a fire protection rating of 11 hours
/2 

in accordance with the California Building Code. The storage room shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
5204.6 Detached storage structure. A maximum of 2,500 cubic feet (70 m3) of loose combustible fibers shall be stored in a detached structure suitably located, with openings pro­tected against entrance of sparks. The structure shall not be occupied for any other purpose. 
SECTION 5205 
BALED STORAGE 


5205.1 Bale size and separation. Baled combustible fibers shall be limited to single blocks or piles not more than 25,000 cubic feet (700 m3) in volume, not including aisles or clear­ances. Blocks or piles of baled fiber shall be separated from adjacent storage by aisles not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) wide, or by flash-fire barriers constructed of continuous sheets of noncombustible material extending from the floor to a minimum height of 1 foot (305 mm) above the highest point of the piles and projecting not less than 1 foot (305 mm) beyond the sides of the piles. 
5205.2 Special baling conditions. Sisal and other fibers in bales bound with combustible tie ropes, jute and other fibers that swell when wet, shall be stored to allow for expansion in any direction without affecting building walls, ceilings or col­umns. A minimum clearance of 3 feet (914 mm) shall be required between walls and sides of piles, except that where the storage compartment is not more than 30 feet (9144 mm) wide, the minimum clearance at side walls shall be 1 foot (305 mm), provided that a center aisle not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) wide is maintained. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 53-COMBUSTIBLE GASES 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section [T-19 §3.18 (a)(b)]  X X  

. . . 
..

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, D1v1s1on 1 proviSions that are found m the Californza Ftre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 53 
COMPRESSED GASES 
SECTION 5301 
GENERAL 


5301.1 Scope. Storage, use and handling of compressed gases in compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall comply with this chapter, including those gases regu­lated elsewhere in this code. Partially full compressed gas containers, cylinders or tanks containing residual gases shall be considered as full for the purposes of the controls required. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Gases used as refrigerants in refrigeration systems (see Section 606). 

2. 	
Compressed natural gas (CNG) for use as a vehicu­lar fuel shall comply with Chapter 23, NFP A 52 and the California Mechanical Code. 


Cutting and welding gases shall also comply with Chapter 

35. 
Cryogenic fluids shall comply with Chapter 55. Liquefied natural gas for use as a vehicular fuel shall also comply with NFPA 52 and NFPA 59A. 
Compressed gases classified as hazardous materials shall also comply with Chapter 50 for general requirements and chapters addressing specific hazards, including Chapters 58 (Flammable Gases), 60 (Highly Toxic and Toxic Materials), 63 (Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases and Oxidizing Cryogenic Fluids) and 64 (Pyrophoric Materials). 
LP-gas shall also comply with Chapter 61 and the Califor­nia Mechanical Code. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.18(a) and (b)] Hazardous Areas. 
(a) General. Occupancies or portions thereof used or intended to be used as operating rooms, surgeries, deliv­ery rooms, storage rooms and similar hazardous locations in which flammable or nonflammable mixtures of gases are used or stored shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of NFPA 99-2005 Inhalation Anesthetics, NFPA 99-2005 Laboratories, NFPA 99-2005 Hyperbaric Facilities, NFPA 55-2010 Bulk Oxygen Systems at Con­sumer Sites, and this section. 

(b) Containers. Cylinders and fittings for compressed gases shall conform to the regulations of the Federal Department of Transportation. 
Compressed gas cylinders shall be clearly marked with the name ofthe gas contained therein. Cylinders shall bear color makings and labels conforming to the following: 
Gas 	Color 
(1) Oxygen ............................................................... Green 

(2) 
Carbon Dioxide .................................................... Gray 


(
3) Nitrous Oxide .............................................. Light Blue 


(
4) Cyclopropan ..................................................... Orange 


(5) 
Heliu .................................................................. Brown 


(6) 
Ethlene ................................................................... Red 


(7) 	
Carbon Dioxide and Oxygen .............................................. Gray and Green 

(8) 
Helium and Oxygen ......................... Brown and Green 



Note: Polished metal or chrome-plated cylinders shall have color tags in addition to color labels. 
When deemed necessary by the enforcing agency, com­pressed gas cylinders shall be secured by chains, metal straps, or other approved materials to prevent overturn­ing. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5301.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 5302 
DEFINITIONS 


5302.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
COMPRESSED GAS. 
COMPRESSED GAS CONTAINER. 
COMPRESSED GAS SYSTEM. 
NESTING. 
TUBE TRAILER. 
SECTION 5303 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


5303.1 Containers, cylinders and tanks. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall comply with this section. Compressed gas containers, cylinders or tanks that are not designed for refillable use shall not be refilled after use of the original contents. 
5303.2 Design and construction. Compressed gas contain­ers, cylinders and tanks shall be designed, fabricated, tested, marked with the specifications of manufacture and main­tained in accordance with the regulations of DOTn 49 CFR Parts 100-185 or the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII. 
5303.3 Pressure relief devices. Pressure relief devices shall be in accordance with Sections 5303.3.1 through 5303.3.5. 
5303.3.1 Where required. Pressure relief devices shall be provided to protect containers, cylinders and tanks con­taining compressed gases from rupture in the event of overpressure. 
Exception: Cylinders, containers and tanks when exempt from the requirements for pressure relief devices specified by the standards of design listed in Section 5303.3.2. 
5303.3.2 Design. Pressure relief devices to protect con­tainers shall be designed and provided in accordance with CGA S-1.1, CGA S-1.2, CGA S-1.3 or the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, as applicable. 
5303.3.3 Sizing. Pressure relief devices shall be sized in accordance with the specifications to which the container was fabricated and to material-specific requirements as applicable. 
5303.3.4 Arrangement. Pressure relief devices shall be arranged to discharge upward and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container, adjacent structures or personnel. 
Exception: DOTn specification containers having an 
internal volume of 30 cubic feet (0.855 m3) or less. 5303.3.5 Freeze protection. Pressure relief devices or vent piping shall be designed or located so that moisture 
cannot collect and freeze in a manner that would interfere with the operation of the device. 
5303.4 Marking. Stationary and portable compressed gas 
containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall be marked in 
accordance with Sections 5303.4.1 through 5303.4.3. 
5303.4.1 Stationary compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks. Stationary compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be marked with the name of the gas and in accordance with Sections 5003.5 and 5003.6. Markings shall be visible from any direction of approach. 
5303.4.2 Portable containers, cylinders and tanks. Por­table compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be marked in accordance with CGA C-7. 
5303.4.3 Piping systems. Piping systems shall be marked in accordance with ASME A13.1. Markings used for pip­ing systems shall consist of the content's name and include a direction-of-flow arrow. Markings shall be pro­vided at each valve; at wall, floor or ceiling penetrations; at each change of direction; and at a minimum of every 20 feet (6096 mm) or fraction thereof throughout the piping run. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Piping that is designed or intended to carry more than one gas at various times shall have appropri­ate signs or markings posted at the manifold, along the piping and at each point of use to pro­vide clear identification and warning. 

2. 	
Piping within gas manufacturing plants, gas pro­cessing plants, refineries and similar occupancies shall be marked in an approved manner. 


5303.5 Security. Compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall be secured against accidental dislodgement and against access by unauthorized personnel in accordance with Sections 5303.5.1 through 5303.5.3. 
5303.5.1 Security of areas. Areas used for the storage, use and handling of compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall be secured against unauthorized entry and safeguarded in an approved manner. 
5303.5.2 Physical protection. Compressed gas contain­ers, cylinders, tanks and systems which could be exposed to physical damage shall be protected. Guard posts or other approved means shall be provided to protect com­pressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems indoors and outdoors from vehicular damage and shall comply with Section 312. 
5303.5.3 Securing compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be secured to prevent falling caused by contact, vibration or seismic activity. Securing of compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be by one of the fol­lowing methods: 
1. 	
Securing containers, cylinders and tanks to a fixed object with one or more restraints. 

2. 	
Securing containers, cylinders and tanks on a cart or other mobile device designed for the movement of compressed gas containers, cylinders or tanks. 


3. 	
Nesting of compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks at container filling or servicing facilities or in seller's warehouses not accessible to the public. Nesting shall be allowed provided the nested con­tainers, cylinders or tanks, if dislodged, do not obstruct the required means of egress. 

4. 	
Securing of compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks to or within a rack, framework, cabinet or similar assembly designed for such use. 


Exception: Compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks in the process of examination, fill­ing, transport or servicing. 

5303.6 Valve protection. Compressed gas container, cylin­der and tank valves shall be protected from physical damage by means of protective caps, collars or similar devices in accordance with Sections 5303.6.1 and 5303.6.2. 
5303.6.1 Compressed gas container, cylinder or tank protective caps or collars. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks designed for protective caps, collars or other protective devices shall have the caps or devices in place except when the containers, cylinders or tanks are in use or are being serviced or filled. 
5303.6.2 Caps and plugs. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks designed for valve protection caps or other protective devices shall have the caps or devices attached. When outlet caps or plugs are installed, they shall be in place. 
Exception: Compressed gas containers, cylinders or tanks in use, being serviced or being filled. 

5303.7 Separation from hazardous conditions. Com­pressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks and systems in storage or use shall be separated from materials and condi­tions which pose exposure hazards to or from each other. Compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems in storage or use shall be separated in accordance with Sections 5303.7.1 through 5303.7.11.2. 
5303.7.1 Incompatible materials. Compressed gas con­tainers, cylinders and tanks shall be separated from each other based on the hazard class of their contents. Com­pressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be sepa­rated from incompatible materials in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
5303.7.2 Combustible waste, vegetation and similar materials. Combustible waste, vegetation and similar materials shall be kept a minimum of 10 feet (3048 mm) from compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and sys­tems. A noncombustible partition, without openings or penetrations and extending not less than 18 inches ( 457 mm) above and to the sides of the storage area is allowed in lieu of such distance. The wall shall either be an inde­pendent structure, or the exterior wall of the building adja­cent to the storage area. 
5303.7.3 Ledges, platforms and elevators. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall not be placed near elevators, unprotected platform ledges or other areas where falling would result in compressed gas containers, 
COMPRESSED GASES 
cylinders or tanks being allowed to drop distances exceed­ing one-half the height of the container, cylinder or tank. 

5303.7.4 Temperature extremes. Compressed gas con­tainers, cylinders and tanks, whether full or partially full, shall not be exposed to artificially created high tempera­tures exceeding l25°F (52°C) or subambient (low) tem­peratures unless designed for use under the exposed conditions. 
5303.7.5 Falling objects. Compressed gas containers, cyl­inders, tanks and systems shall not be placed in areas where they are capable of being damaged by falling objects. 
5303.7.6 Heating. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks, whether full or partially full, shall not be heated by devices which could raise the surface temperature of the container, cylinder or tank to above 125°F (52°C). Heating devices shall comply with the California Mechan­ical Code and California Electrical Code. Approved heat­ing methods involving temperatures of less than l25°F (52°C) are allowed to be used by trained personnel. Devices designed to maintain individual compressed gas containers, cylinders or tanks at constant temperature shall be approved and shall be designed to be fail-safe. 
5303.7.7 Sources of ignition. Open flames and high-tem­perature devices shall not be used in a manner which cre­ates a hazardous condition. 
5303.7.8 Exposure to chemicals. Compressed gas con­tainers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall not be exposed to corrosive chemicals or fumes which could damage con­tainers, cylinders, tanks, valves or valve-protective caps. 
5303.7.9 Exhausted enclosures. When exhausted enclo­sures are provided as a means to segregate compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks from exposure hazards, such enclosures shall comply with the requirements of Section 5003.8.5. 
5303.7.10 Gas cabinets. When gas cabinets are provided as a means to separate compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks from exposure hazards, such gas cabinets shall comply with the requirements of Section 5003.8.6. 
5303.7.11 Tube trailers. Tube trailers, including those containing compatible compressed gases, shall be sur­rounded by a clear space of not less than 3 feet (914 mm) to allow for maintenance, access and inspection. 
5303.7.11.1 Individual tube trailers containing incompatible materials. Increased separation dis­tances between individual tube trailers containing incompatible gases shall be provided when required by Section 5303.7.1. 
5303.7.11.2 Connections. Piping systems used to con­nect tube trailers to a user piping system shall not be viewed as an encroachment into the 3-foot (914 mm) clear space. 

5303.8 Wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equip­ment shall comply with California Electrical Code. Com­pressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall not be located where they could become part of an electrical cir­
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
cuit. Compressed gas containers, cylinders, tanks and systems shall not be used for electrical grounding. 
5303.9 Service and repair. Service, repair, modification or removal of valves, pressure-relief devices or other com­pressed gas container, cylinder or tank appurtenances shall be performed by trained personnel. 
5303.10 Unauthorized use. Compressed gas containers, cyl­inders, tanks and systems shall not be used for any purpose other than to serve as a vessel for containing the product which it is designed to contain. 
5303.11 Exposure to fire. Compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks which have been exposed to fire shall be removed from service. Containers, cylinders and tanks so removed shall be handled by approved, qualified persons. 
5303.12 Leaks, damage or corrosion. Leaking, damaged or corroded compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be removed from service. Leaking, damaged or cor­roded compressed gas systems shall be replaced or repaired in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks which have been removed from service shall be handled in an approved manner. 

2. 	
Compressed gas systems which are determined to be leaking, damaged or corroded shall be repaired to a ser­viceable condition or removed from service. 


5303.13 Surface of unprotected storage or use areas. Unless otherwise specified in Section 5303.14, compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks are allowed to be stored or used without being placed under overhead cover. To prevent bottom corrosion, containers, cylinders and tanks shall be protected from direct contact with soil or unimproved sur­faces. The surface of the area on which the containers are placed shall be graded to prevent accumulation of water. 
5303.14 Overhead cover. Compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks are allowed to be stored or used in the sun except in locations where extreme temperatures prevail. When extreme temperatures prevail, overhead covers shall be provided. 
5303.15 Lighting. Approved lighting by natural or artificial means shall be provided. 
5303.16 Vaults. Generation, compression, storage and dis­pensing equipment for compressed gases shall be allowed to be located in either above-or below-grade vaults complying with Sections 5303.16.1 through 5303.16.14. 
5303.16.1 Listing required. Vaults shall be listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. 
Exception: Where approved by the fire code official, below-grade vaults are allowed to be constructed on site, provided that the design is in accordance with the California Building Code and that special inspections are conducted to verify structural strength and compli­ance of the installation with the approved design in accordance with Section 1707 of the California Build­ing Code. Installation plans for below-grade vaults that are constructed on site shall be prepared by, and the design shall bear the stamp of, a professional engineer. 
Consideration shall be given to soil and hydrostatic loading on the floors, walls and lid; anticipated seismic forces; uplifting by ground water or flooding; and to loads imposed from above, such as traffic and equip­ment loading on the vault lid. 
5303.16.2 Design and construction. The vault shall com­pletely enclose generation, compression, storage or dis­pensing equipment located in the vault. There shall be no openings in the vault enclosure except those necessary for vault ventilation and access, inspection, filling, emptying or venting of equipment in the vault. The walls and floor of the vault shall be constructed of reinforced concrete at least 6 inches (152 mm) thick. The top of an above-grade vault shall be constructed of noncombustible material and shall be designed to be weaker than the walls of the vault to ensure that the thrust of any explosion occurring inside the vault is directed upward. 
The top of an at-or below-grade vault shall be designed to relieve safely or contain the force of an explosion occur­ring inside the vault. The top and floor of the vault and the tank foundation shall be designed to withstand the antici­pated loading, including loading from vehicular traffic, where applicable. The walls and floor of a vault installed below grade shall be designed to withstand anticipated soil and hydrostatic loading. Vaults shall be designed to be wind and earthquake resistant, in accordance with the Cal­ifornia Building Code. 
5303.16.3 Secondary containment. Vaults shall be sub­stantially liquid-tight and there shall be no backfill within the vault. The vault floor shall drain to a sump. For pre­manufactured vaults, liquid tightness shall be certified as part of the listing provided by a nationally recognized test­ing laboratory. For field-erected vaults, liquid tightness shall be certified in an approved manner. 
5303.16.4 Internal clearance. There shall be sufficient clearance within the vault to allow for visual inspection and maintenance of equipment in the vault. 
5303.16.5 Anchoring. Vaults and equipment contained therein shall be suitably anchored to withstand uplifting by groundwater or flooding. The design shall verify that uplifting is prevented even when equipment within the vault is empty. 
5303.16.6 Vehicle impact protection. Vaults shall be resistant to damage from the impact of a motor vehicle, or vehicle impact protection shall be provided in accordance with Section 312. 
5303.16.7 Arrangement. Equipment in vaults shall be listed or approved for above-ground use. Where multiple vaults are provided, adjacent vaults shall be allowed to share a common wall. The common wall shall be liquid and vapor tight and shall be designed to withstand the load imposed when the vault on either side of the wall is filled with water. 
5303.16.8 Connections. Connections shall be provided to permit the venting of each vault to dilute, disperse and remove vapors prior to personnel entering the vault. 
5303.16.9 Ventilation. Vaults shall be provided with an exhaust ventilation system installed in accordance with Section 5004.3. The ventilation system shall operate con­tinuously or be designed to operate upon activation of the vapor or liquid detection system. The system shall provide ventilation at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute (cfm) per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s • m2)] of floor area, but not less than 150 cfm (4m3/min). The exhaust system shall be designed to provide air movement across all parts of the vault floor for gases having a density greater than air and across all parts of the vault ceiling for gases having a density less than air. Supply ducts shall extend to within 3 inches (76 mm), but not more than 12 inches (305 nun), of the floor. Exhaust ducts shall extend to within 3 inches (76 mm), but not more than 12 inches (305 mm) of the floor or ceiling, for heavier-than-air or lighter-than-air gases, respectively. The exhaust system shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
5303.16.10 Monitoring and detection. Vaults shall be provided with approved vapor and liquid detection sys­tems and equipped with on-site audible and visual warning devices with battery backup. Vapor detection systems shall sound an alarm when the system detects vapors that reach or exceed 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) or one-half the immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH) concentration for the gas in the vault. Vapor detectors shall be located no higher than 12 inches (305 mm) above the lowest point in the vault for heavier­than-air gases and no lower than 12 inches (305 mm) below the highest point in the vault for lighter-than-air gases. Liquid detection systems shall sound an alarm upon detection of any liquid, including water. Liquid detectors shall be located in accordance with the manufacturers' instructions. Activation of either vapor or liquid detection systems shall cause a signal to be sounded at an approved, constantly attended location within the facility served by the tanks or at an approved location. Activation of vapor detection systems shall also shut off gas-handling equip­ment in the vault and dispensers. 
5303.16.11 Liquid removal. Means shall be provided to recover liquid from the vault. Where a pump is used to meet this requirement, it shall not be permanently installed in the vault. Electric-powered portable pumps shall be suitable for use in Class I, Division 1 locations, as defined in California Electrical Code. 
5303.16.12 Relief vents. Vent pipes for equipment in the vault shall terminate at least 12 feet (3658 mm) above ground level. 
5303.16.13 Accessway. Vaults shall be provided with an approved personnel accessway with a minimum dimen­sion of 30 inches (762 mm) and with a permanently affixed, nonferrous ladder. Accessways shall be designed to be nonsparking. Travel distance from any point inside a vault to an accessway shall not exceed 20 feet (6096 mm). At each entry point, a warning sign indicating the need for procedures for safe entry into confined spaces shall be posted. Entry points shall be secured against unauthorized entry and vandalism. 
COMPRESSED GASES 
5303.16.14 Classified area. The interior of a vault con­taining a flammable gas shall be designated a Class I, Division 1 location, as defined in California Electrical Code. 
SECTION 5304 
STORAGE OF COMPRESSED GASES 


5304.1 Upright storage. Compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks, except those designed for use in a horizontal position, and all compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks containing nonliquefied gases, shall be stored in an upright position with the valve end up. An upright position shall include conditions where the container, cylinder or tank axis is inclined as much as 45 degrees (0.80 rad) from the ver­tical. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Compressed gas containers with a water volume less than 1.3 gallons (5 L) are allowed to be stored in a horizontal position. 

2. 	
Cylinders, containers and tanks containing nonflam­mable gases or cylinders, containers and tanks con­taining nonliquefied flammable gases, which have been secured to a pallet for transportation purposes. 



5304.2 Material-specific regulations. In addition to the requirements of this section, indoor and outdoor storage of compressed gases shall comply with the material-specific provisions of Chapters 54, 58 and 60 through 67. 
SECTION 5305 
USE AND HANDLING OF COMPRESSED GASES 

5305.1 Compressed gas systems. Compressed gas systems shall be suitable for the use intended and shall be designed by persons competent in such design. Compressed gas equip­ment, machinery and processes shall be listed or approved. 
5305.2 Controls. Compressed gas system controls shall be designed to prevent materials from entering or leaving pro­cess or reaction systems at other than the intended time, rate or path. Automatic controls shall be designed to be fail safe. 
5305.3 Piping systems. Piping, including tubing, valves, fit­tings and pressure regulators, shall comply with this section and Chapter 50. Piping, tubing, pressure regulators, valves and other apparatus shall be kept gas tight to prevent leakage. 
5305.4 Valves. Valves utilized on compressed gas systems shall be suitable for the use intended and shall be accessible. Valve handles or operators for required shutoff valves shall not be removed or otherwise altered to prevent access. 
5305.5 Venting. Venting of gases shall be directed to an approved location. Venting shall comply with the California Mechanical Code. 
5305.6 Upright use. Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks, except those designed for use in a horizontal posi­tion, and all compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks containing nonliquefied gases, shall be used in an upright position with the valve end up. An upright position shall include conditions where the container, cylinder or tank axis 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
is inclined as much as 45 degrees (0.80 rad) from the vertical. Use of nonflammable liquefied gases in the inverted position when the liquid phase is used shall not be prohibited provided that the container, cylinder or tank is properly secured and the dispensing apparatus is designed for liquefied gas use. 
Exception: Compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks with a water volume less than 1.3 gallons (5 L) are allowed to be used in a horizontal position. 
5305.7 Transfer. Transfer of gases between containers, cyl­inders and tanks shall be performed by qualified personnel using equipment and operating procedures in accordance with CGA P-1. 
Exception: Fueling of vehicles with compressed natural gas (CNG). 
5305.8 Use of compressed gas for inflation. Inflatable equipment, devices or balloons shall only be pressurized or filled with compressed air or inert gases. 
5305.9 Material-specific regulations. In addition to the requirements of this section, indoor and outdoor use of com­pressed gases shall comply with the material-specific provi­sions of Chapters 54, 58 and 60 through 67. 
5305.10 Handling. The handling of compressed gas contain­ers, cylinders and tanks shall comply with Sections 5305.10.1 and 5305.10.2. 
5305.10.1 Carts and trucks. Containers, cylinders and tanks shall be moved using an approved method. Where containers, cylinders or tanks are moved by hand cart, hand truck or other mobile device, such carts, trucks or devices shall be designed for the secure movement of con­tainers, cylinders or tanks. Carts and trucks utilized for transport of compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks within buildings shall comply with Section 5003.10. Carts and trucks utilized for transport of compressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks exterior to buildings shall be designed so that the containers, cylinders and tanks will be secured against dropping or otherwise striking against each other or other surfaces. 
5305.10.2 Lifting devices. Ropes, chains or slings shall not be used to suspend compressed gas containers, cylin­ders and tanks unless provisions at time of manufacture have been made on the container, cylinder or tank for appropriate lifting attachments, such as lugs. 
SECTION 5306 
MEDICAL GAS SYSTEMS 


5306.1 General. Compressed gases at hospitals and similar facilities intended for inhalation or sedation including, but not limited to, analgesia systems for dentistry, podiatry, veteri­nary and similar uses shall comply with Sections 5306.2 through 5306.4 in addition to other requirements of this chap­ter. 
5306.2 Interior supply location. Medical gases shall be stored in areas dedicated to the storage of such gases without other storage or uses. Where containers of medical gases in quantities greater than the permit amount are located inside buildings, they shall be in a 1-hour exterior room, a 1-hour interior room or a gas cabinet in accordance with Section 5306.2.1, 5306.2.2 or 5306.2.3, respectively. Rooms or areas where medical gases are stored or used in quantities exceed­ing the maximum allowable quantity per control area as set forth in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with the Cali­fornia Building Code for high-hazard Group H occupancies. 
5306.2.1 One-hour exterior rooms. A 1-hour exterior room shall be a room or enclosure separated from the remainder of the building by fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code or horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both, with a fire-resistance rating of not less than 1 hour. Open­ings between the room or enclosure and interior spaces shall be self-closing smoke-and draft-control assemblies having a fire protection rating of not less than 1 hour. Rooms shall have at least one exterior wall that is pro­vided with at least two vents. Each vent shall not be less than 36 square inches (0.023 m2) in area. One vent shall be within 6 inches (152 mm) of the floor and one shall be within 6 inches (152 mm) of the ceiling. Rooms shall be provided with at least one automatic sprinkler to provide container cooling in case of fire. 
5306.2.2 One-hour interior room. When an exterior wall cannot be provided for the room, automatic sprinklers shall be installed within the room. The room shall be exhausted through a duct to the exterior. Supply and exhaust ducts shall be enclosed in a 1-hour-rated shaft enclosure from the room to the exterior. Approved mechanical ventilation shall comply with the California Mechanical Code and be provided at a minimum rate of 1 cubic foot per minute per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s . m2)] of the area of the room. 
5306.2.3 Gas cabinets. Gas cabinets shall be constructed in accordance with Section 5003.8.6 and the following: 
1. 	
The average velocity of ventilation at the face of access ports or windows shall not be less than 200 feet per minute (1.02 m/s) with a minimum of 150 feet per minute (0.76 m/s) at any point of the access port or window. 

2. 	
They shall be connected to an exhaust system. 

3. 	
They shall be internally sprinklered. 


5306.3 Exterior supply locations. Oxidizer medical gas sys­tems located on the exterior of a building with quantities greater than the permit amount shall be located in accordance with Section 6304.2.1. 
5306.4 Medical gas systems. Medical gas systems including, but not limited to, distribution piping, supply manifolds, con­nections, pressure regulators and relief devices and valves, shall comply with NFPA 99 and the general provisions of this chapter. 
COMPRESSED GASES 
SECTION 5307 
COMPRESSED GASES 
NOT OTHERWISE REGULATED 


5307.1 General. Compressed gases in storage or use not reg­ulated by the material-specific provisions of Chapters 6, 54, 55 and 60 through 67, including asphyxiant, irritant and radioactive gases, shall comply with this section in addition to other requirements of this chapter. 
5307.2 Ventilation. Indoor storage and use areas and storage buildings shall be provided with mechanical exhaust ventila­tion or natural ventilation in accordance with the require­ments of Section 5004.3 or 5005.1.9. When mechanical ventilation is provided, the systems shall be operational dur­ing such time as the building or space is occupied. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 54-CORROSIVE MATERIALS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD 1 2 3 4  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC 
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  
5404.2.1  X  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn I proviSions that are found m the Califonua Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 54 
CORROSIVE MATERIALS 
SECTION 5401 materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable GENERAL quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 50. 
5401.1 Scope. The storage and use of corrosive materials shall be in accordance with this chapter. Compressed gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
SECTION 5404 
Exceptions: 
STORAGE 
1. Display and storage in Group M and storage in 5404.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of corrosive materials Group S occupancies complying with Section in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per 5003.11. 

control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(2), shall be in accor­2. Stationary storage battery systems in accordance dance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
with Section 608. 5404.1.1 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to the provisions 
3. This chapter shall not apply to R-717 (ammonia) of Section 5004.12, floors in storage areas for corrosive where used as a refrigerant in a refrigeration system liquids shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
(see Section 606). 

5401.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­	5404.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of corrosive mate­
tion 105.6. 	rials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
SECTION 5402 
5404.2.1 Above-ground outside storage tanks. When
DEFINITION 
required by Section 5004.2.2, above-ground outside stor­

5402.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
age tanks of corrosive liquids shall be provided with sec-< CORROSIVE. ondary containment. 
5404.2.2 Distance from storage to exposures. Outdoor storage of corrosive materials shall not be within 20 feet 
SECTION 5403 
(6096 mm) of buildings not associated with the manufac­
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
turing or distribution of such materials, lot lines, public 5403.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress. A 2­quantity per control area. The storage and use of corrosive hour fire barrier without openings or penetrations, and materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable extending not less than 30 inches (762 mm) above and to quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be the sides of the storage area, is allowed in lieu of such dis­in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5401. 

tance. The wall shall either be an independent structure, or 5403.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable the exterior wall of the building adjacent to the storage quantity per control area. The storage and use of corrosive area. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	407 
SECTION 5405 
USE 


5405.1 Indoor use. The indoor use of corrosive materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per con­trol area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 (2) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
5405.1.1 Liquid transfer. Conosive liquids shall be transferred in accordance with Section 5005.1.10. 
5405.1.2 Ventilation. When corrosive materials are dis­pensed or used, mechanical exhaust ventilation in accor­dance with Section 5005.2.1.1 shall be provided. 
5405.2 Outdoor use. The outdoor use of corrosive materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
5405.2.1 Distance from use to exposures. Outdoor use of corrosive materials shall be located in accordance with Section 5404.2.2. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 55 -CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC DSA  ss  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . 
...

* The Califomta Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DlV!siOn 1 prov!Slons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 55 
CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
SECTION 5501 
GENERAL 


5501.1 Scope. Storage, use and handling of cryogenic fluids shall comply with this chapter. Cryogenic fluids classified as hazardous materials shall also comply with Chapter 50 for general requirements. Partially full containers containing residual cryogenic fluids shall be considered as full for the purposes of the controls required. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Fluids used as refrigerants in refrigeration systems (see Section 606). 

2. 	
Liquefied natural gas (LNG), which shall comply with NFPA 59 A. 



Oxidizing cryogenic fluids, including oxygen, shall com­ply with NFPA 55 and Chapter 63, as applicable. 
Flammable cryogenic fluids, including hydrogen, methane and carbon monoxide, shall comply with NFPA 55 and Chap­ters 23 and 58, as applicable. 
Inert cryogenic fluids, including argon, helium and nitro­gen, shall comply with CGA P-18. 
5501.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 5502 
DEFINITIONS 


5502.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2. 
CRYOGENIC CONTAINER. 
CRYOGENIC FLUID. 
CRYOGENIC VESSEL. 
FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUID. 
LOW-PRESSURE TANK. 
SECTION 5503 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


5503.1 Containers. Containers employed for storage or use of cryogenic fluids shall comply with Sections 5503.1.1 through 5503.1.3.2 and Chapter 50. 
5503.1.1 Nonstandard containers. Containers, equip­ment and devices which are not in compliance with recog­nized standards for design and construction shall be approved upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that they are designed and constructed for safe operation. 
5503.1.1.1 Data submitted for approval. The follow­ing data shall be submitted to the fire code official with reference to the deviation from the recognized standard with the application for approval. 

1. 	
Type and use of container, equipment or device. 

2. 	
Material to be stored, used or transported. 

3. 	
Description showing dimensions and materials used in construction. 

4. 	
Design pressure, maximum operating pressure and test pressure. 

5. 
Type, size and setting of pressure relief devices. 


6. 
Other data requested by the fire code official. 5503.1.2 Concrete containers. Concrete containers shall be built in accordance with the California Building Code. Barrier materials and membranes used in connection with 


concrete, but not functioning structurally, shall be compat­ible with the materials contained. 
5503.1.3 Foundations and supports. Containers shall be provided with substantial concrete or masonry founda­tions, or structural steel supports on firm concrete or 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
masomy foundations. Containers shall be supported to prevent the concentration of excessive loads on the sup­porting portion of the shell. Foundations for horizontal containers shall be constructed to accommodate expansion and contraction of the container. Foundations shall be pro­vided to support the weight of vaporizers or heat exchang­ers. 
5503.1.3.1 Temperature effects. When container foundations or supports are subject to exposure to tem­peratures below -150°F ( -101 °C), the foundations or supports shall be constructed of materials to withstand the low-temperature effects of cryogenic fluid spillage. 
5503.1.3.2 Corrosion protection. Portions of contain­ers in contact with foundations or saddles shall be painted to protect against corrosion. 
5503.2 Pressure relief devices. Pressure relief devices shall be provided in accordance with Sections 5503.2.1 through 5503.2.7 to protect containers and systems containing cryo­genic fluids from rupture in the event of overpressure. Pres­sure relief devices shall be designed in accordance with CGA S-1.1, CGA S-1.2 and CGA S-1.3. 
5503.2.1 Containers. Containers shall be provided with pressure relief devices. 
5503.2.2 Vessels or equipment other than containers. Heat exchangers, vaporizers, insulation casings surround­ing containers, vessels and coaxial piping systems in which liquefied cryogenic fluids could be trapped because of leakage from the primary container shall be provided with a pressure relief device. 
5503.2.3 Sizing. Pressure relief devices shall be sized in accordance with the specifications to which the container was fabricated. The relief device shall have sufficient capacity to prevent the maximum design pressure of the container or system from being exceeded. 
5503.2.4 Accessibility. Pressure relief devices shall be located such that they are provided with ready access for inspection and repair. 
5503.2.5 Arrangement. Pressure relief devices shall be arranged to discharge unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent impingement of escaping gas on personnel, containers, equipment and adjacent structures or to enter enclosed spaces. 
Exception: DOTn-specified containers with an internal volume of 2 cubic feet (0.057 m3) or less. 
5503.2.6 Shutoffs between pressure relief devices and containers. Shutoff valves shall not be installed between pressure relief devices and containers. 
Exception: A shutoff valve is allowed on containers equipped with multiple pressure-relief device installa­tions where the arrangement of the valves provides the full required flow through the minimum number of required relief devices at all times. 
5503.2.7 Temperature limits. Pressure relief devices shall not be subjected to cryogenic fluid temperatures except when operating. 
5503.3 Pressure relief vent piping. Pressure relief vent-pip­ing systems shall be constructed and arranged so as to remain functional and direct the flow of gas to a safe location in accordance with Sections 5503.3.1 and 5503.3.2. 
5503.3.1 Sizing. Pressure relief device vent piping shall have a cross-sectional area not less than that of the pres­sure relief device vent opening and shall be arranged so as not to restrict the flow of escaping gas. 
5503.3.2 Arrangement. Pressure relief device vent piping and drains in vent lines shall be arranged so that escaping gas will discharge unobstructed to the open air and not impinge on personnel, containers, equipment and adjacent structures or enter enclosed spaces. Pressure relief device vent lines shall be installed in such a manner to exclude or remove moisture and condensation and prevent malfunc­tion of the pressure relief device because of freezing or ice accumulation. 
5503.4 Marking. Cryogenic containers and systems shall be marked in accordance with Sections 5503.4.1 through 5503.4.6. 
5503.4.1 Identification signs. Visible hazard identifica­tion signs in accordance with NFP A 704 shall be provided at entrances to buildings or areas in which cryogenic fluids are stored, handled or used. 
5503.4.2 Identification of contents. Stationary and porta­ble containers shall be marked with the name of the gas contained. Stationary above-ground containers shall be placarded in accordance with Sections 5003.5 and 5003.6. Portable containers shall be identified in accordance with CGAC-7. 
5503.4.3 Identification of containers. Stationary contain­ers shall be identified with the manufacturing specification and maximum allowable working pressure with a perma­nent nameplate. The nameplate shall be installed on the container in an accessible location. The nameplate shall be marked in accordance with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code or DOTn 49 CFR Parts 100-185. 
5503.4.4 Identification of container connections. Con­tainer inlet and outlet connections, liquid-level limit con­trols, valves and pressure gauges shall be identified in accordance with one of the following: marked with a per­manent tag or label identifying their function, or identified by a schematic drawing which portrays their function and designates whether they are connected to the vapor or liq­uid space of the container. Where a schematic drawing is provided, it shall be attached to the container and main­tained in a legible condition. 
5503.4.5 Identification of piping systems. Piping sys­tems shall be identified in accordance with ASME A13.1. 
5503.4.6 Identification of emergency shutoff valves. Emergency shutoff valves shall be identified and the loca­tion shall be clearly visible and indicated by means of a sign. 
5503.5 Security. Cryogenic containers and systems shall be secured against accidental dislodgement and against access by unauthorized personnel in accordance with Sections 5503.5.1 through 5503.5.4. 
5503.5.1 Security of areas. Containers and systems shall be secured against unauthorized entry and safeguarded in an approved manner. 
5503.5.2 Securing of containers. Stationary containers shall be secured to foundations in accordance with the California Building Code. Portable containers subject to shifting or upset shall be secured. Nesting shall be an acceptable means of securing containers. 
5503.5.3 Securing of vaporizers. Vaporizers, heat exchangers and similar equipment shall be anchored to a suitable foundation and its connecting piping shall be suf­ficiently flexible to provide for the effects of expansion and contraction due to temperature changes. 
5503.5.4 Physical protection. Containers, piping, valves, pressure relief devices, regulating equipment and other appurtenances shall be protected against physical damage and tampering. 

5503.6 Electrical wiring and equipment. Electrical wiring and equipment shall comply with California Electrical Code and Sections 5503.7.1 and 5503.7.2. 
5503.6.1 Location. Containers and systems shall not be located where they could become part of an electrical cir­cuit. 
5503.6.2 Electrical grounding and bonding. Containers and systems shall not be used for electrical grounding. When electrical grounding and bonding is required, the system shall comply with the California Electrical Code. The grounding system shall be protected against corro­sion, including corrosion caused by stray electric currents. 

5503.7 Service and repair. Service, repair, modification or removal of valves, pressure relief devices or other container appurtenances shall comply with Sections 5503.7.1 and 5503.7.2 and the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII or DOTn 49 CFR Parts 100-185. 
5503.7.1 Containers. Containers that have been removed from service shall be handled in an approved manner. 
5503.7.2 Systems. Service and repair of systems shall be performed by trained personnel. 

5503.8 Unauthorized use. Containers shall not be used for any purpose other than to serve as a vessel for containing the product which it is designed to contain. 
5503.9 Leaks, damage and corrosion. Leaking, damaged or corroded containers shall be removed from service. Leaking, damaged or corroded systems shall be replaced, repaired or removed in accordance with Section 5503.7. 
5503.10 Lighting. When required, lighting, including emer­gency lighting, shall be provided for fire appliances and oper-
CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

ating facilities such as walkways, control valves and gates ancillary to stationary containers. 
SECTION 5504 
STORAGE 


5504.1 General. Storage of containers shall comply with this section. 
5504.2 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of containers shall be in accordance with Sections 5504.2.1 through 5504.2.2.3. 
5504.2.1 Stationary containers. Stationary containers shall be installed in accordance with the provisions appli­cable to the type of fluid stored and this section. 
5504.2.1.1 Containers. Stationary containers shall comply with Section 5503.1. 
5504.2.1.2 Construction of indoor areas. Cryogenic fluids in stationary containers stored indoors shall be located in buildings, rooms or areas constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5504.2.1.3 Ventilation. Storage areas for stationary containers shall be ventilated in accordance with the 
California Mechanical Code. 

5504.2.2 Portable containers. Indoor storage of portable containers shall comply with the provisions applicable to the type of fluid stored and Sections 5504.2.2.1 through 5504.2.2.3. 
5504.2.2.1 Containers. Portable containers shall com­ply with Section 5503.1. 
5504.2.2.2 Construction of indoor areas. Cryogenic fluids in portable containers stored indoors shall be stored in buildings, rooms or areas constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5504.2.2.3 Ventilation. Storage areas shall be venti­lated in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 

5504.3 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of containers shall 
be in accordance with Sections 5504.3.1 through 
5504.3.1.2.3. 
5504.3.1 Separation from hazardous conditions. Cryo­genic containers and systems in outdoor storage shall be separated from materials and conditions that pose expo­sure hazards to or from each other in accordance with Sec­tions 5504.3.1.1 through 5504.3.1.1.5. 
5504.3.1.1 Stationary containers. Stationary contain­ers shall be separated from exposure hazards in accor­dance with the provisions applicable to the type of fluid contained and the minimum separation distances indi­cated in Table 5504.3.1.1. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 5504.3.1.1 
SEPARATION OF STATIONARY 
CONTAINERS FROM EXPOSURE HAZARDS 

TABLE 5504.3.1.2.1 
SEPARATION OF PORTABLE 
CONTAINERS FROM EXPOSURE HAZARDS 


EXPOSURE  MINIMUM DISTANCE (feet)  
Buildings, regardless of construction type  1  
Wall openings  1  
Air intakes  10  
Lot lines  5  
Places of public assembly  50  
Nonambulatory patient areas  50  
Combustible materials such as paper, leaves, weeds, dry grass or debris  15  
Other hazardous materials  In accordance with Chapter 50  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
5504.3.1.1.1 Point-of-till connections. Remote transfer points and fill connection points shall not be positioned closer to exposures than the minimum distances required for stationary containers. 
5504.3.1.1.2 Surfaces beneath containers. Con­tainers shall be placed on surfaces that are compati­ble with the fluid in the container. 
5504.3.1.1.3 Location. Containers of cryogenic flu­ids shall not be located within diked areas contain­ing other hazardous materials. 
5504.3.1.1.4 Areas subject to flooding. Stationary containers located in areas subject to flooding shall be securely anchored or elevated to prevent the con­tainers from separating from foundations or sup­ports. 
5504.3.1.1.5 Drainage. The area surrounding sta­tionary containers shall be provided with a means to prevent accidental discharge of fluids from endan­gering personnel, containers, equipment and adja­cent structures or to enter enclosed spaces. The stationary container shall not be placed where spilled or discharged fluids will be retained around the container. 
Exception: These provisions shall not apply when it is determined by the fire code official that the container does not constitute a hazard, after consideration of special features such as crushed rock utilized as a heat sink, topographical condi­tions, nature of occupancy, proximity to struc­tures on the same or adjacent property, and the capacity and construction of containers and char­acter of fluids to be stored. 

5504.3.1.2 Outdoor storage of portable containers. Outdoor storage of portable containers shall comply with Section 5503 and Sections 5504.3.1.2.1 through 5504.3.1.2.3. 
5504.3.1.2.1 Exposure hazard separation. Porta­ble containers in outdoor storage shall be separated from exposure hazards in accordance with Table 5504.3.1.2.1. 

EXPOSURE  MINIMUM DISTANCE (feet)  
Building exits  10  
Wall openings  1  
Air intakes  10  
Lot lines  5  
Combustible materials such as paper, leaves, weeds, dry grass or debris  15  
Other hazardous materials  In accordance with Chapter 50  

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm. 
5504.3.1.2.2 Surfaces beneath containers. The sur­face of the area on which stationary containers are placed, including the smface of the area located below the point where connections are made for the purpose of filling such containers, shall be compati­ble with the fluid in the container. 
5504.3.1.2.3 Drainage. The area surrounding porta­ble containers shall be provided with a means to pre­vent accidental discharge of fluids from endangering adjacent containers, buildings, equipment or adjoin­ing property. 
Exception: These provisions shall not apply when it is determined by the fire code official that the container does not constitute a hazard. 
SECTION 5505 
USE AND HANDLING 


5505.1 General. Use and handling of cryogenic fluid con­tainers and systems shall comply with Sections 5505.1.1 through 5505.5.2. 
5505.1.1 Cryogenic fluid systems. Cryogenic fluid sys­tems shall be suitable for the use intended and designed by persons competent in such design. Equipment, machinery and processes shall be listed or approved. 
5505.1.2 Piping systems. Piping, tubing, valves and joints and fittings conveying cryogenic fluids shall be installed in accordance with the material-specific provisions of Sec­tion 5501.1 and Sections 5505.1.2.1 through 5505.1.2.6. 
5505.1.2.1 Design and construction. Piping systems shall be suitable for the use intended through the full range of pressure and temperature to which they will be subjected. Piping systems shall be designed and con­structed to provide adequate allowance for expansion, contraction, vibration, settlement and fire exposure. 
5505.1.2.2 Joints. Joints on container piping and tub­ing shall be threaded, welded, silver brazed or flanged. 
5505.1.2.3 Valves and accessory equipment. Valves and accessory equipment shall be suitable for the intended use at the temperatures of the application and shall be designed and constructed to withstand the max­imum pressure at the minimum temperature to which they will be subjected. 
5505.1.2.3.1 Shutoff valves on containers. Shutoff valves shall be provided on all container connec­tions except for pressure relief devices. Shutoff valves shall be provided with access thereto and located as close as practical to the container. 
5505.1.2.3.2 Shutoff valves on piping. Shutoff valves shall be installed in piping containing cryo­genic fluids where needed to limit the volume of liq­uid discharged in the event of piping or equipment failure. Pressure relief valves shall be installed where liquid is capable of being trapped between shutoff-valves in the piping system (see Section 5503.2). 
5505.1.2.4 Physical protection and support. Piping systems shall be supported and protected from physical damage. Piping passing through walls shall be pro­tected from mechanical damage. 
5505.1.2.5 Corrosion protection. Above-ground pip­ing that is subject to corrosion because of exposure to corrosive atmospheres, shall be constructed of materi­als to resist the corrosive environment or otherwise pro­tected against corrosion. Below-ground piping shall be protected against corrosion. 
5505.1.2.6 Testing. Piping systems shall be tested and proven free of leaks after installation as required by the standards to which they were designed and constructed. Test pressures shall not be less than 150 percent of the maximum allowable working pressure when hydraulic testing is conducted or 110 percent when testing is con­ducted pneumatically. 

5505.2 Indoor use. Indoor use of cryogenic fluids shall com­ply with the material-specific provisions of Section 5501.1. 
5505.3 Outdoor use. Outdoor use of cryogenic fluids shall comply with the material specific provisions of Sections 5501.1, 5505.3.1 and 5505.3.2. 
5505.3.1 Separation. Distances from lot lines, buildings and exposure hazards shall comply with Section 5504.3 and the material-specific provisions of Section 5501.1. 
5505.3.2 Emergency shutoff valves. Manual or automatic emergency shutoff valves shall be provided to shut off the cryogenic fluid supply in case of emergency. An emer-
CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

gency shutoff valve shall be located at the source of sup­ply and at the point where the system enters the building. 
5505.4 Filling and dispensing. Filling and dispensing of cryogenic fluids shall comply with Sections 5505.4.1 through 5505.4.3. 
5505.4.1 Dispensing areas. Dispensing of cryogenic flu­ids with physical or health hazards shall be conducted in approved locations. Dispensing indoors shall be conducted in areas constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5505.4.1.1 Ventilation. Indoor areas where cryogenic fluids are dispensed shall be ventilated in accordance with the requirements of the California Mechanical Code in a manner that captures any vapor at the point of generation. 
Exception: Cryogenic fluids that can be demon­strated not to create harmful vapors. 
5505.4.1.2 Piping systems. Piping systems utilized for filling or dispensing of cryogenic fluids shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section 5505.1.2. 

5505.4.2 Vehicle loading and unloading areas. Loading or unloading areas shall be conducted in an approved man­ner in accordance with the standards referenced in Section 5501.1. 
5505.4.3 Limit controls. Limit controls shall be provided to prevent overfilling of stationary containers during fill­ing operations. 
5505.5 Handling. Handling of cryogenic containers shall comply with Sections 5505.5.1 and 5505.5.2. 
5505.5.1 Carts and trucks. Cryogenic containers shall be moved using an approved method. Where cryogenic con­tainers are moved by hand cart, hand truck or other mobile device, such carts, trucks or devices shall be designed for the secure movement of the container. 
Carts and trucks used to transport cryogenic containers shall be designed to provide a stable base for the commod­ities to be transported and shall have a means of restrain­ing containers to prevent accidental dislodgement. 
5505.5.2 Closed containers. Pressurized containers shall be transported in a closed condition. Containers designed for use at atmospheric conditions shall be transported with appropriate loose fitting covers in place to prevent spill­age. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 56-EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISion I proviSions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 56 
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS 
SECTION 5601 GENERAL 

> 	5601.1 Scope. For explosives requirements see California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 10. For fireworks requirements see California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 6. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The Armed Forces of the United States, Coast Guard or National Guard. 

2. 	
Explosives in forms prescribed by the official United States Pharmacopoeia. 

3. 	
The possession, storage and use of small arms ammunition when packaged in accordance with DOTn packaging requirements. 



> 4. 	The use of explosive materials by federal, state and local regulatory, law enforcement and fire agencies acting in their official capacities. 
> 5. 	Items preempted by federal regulations. 
> SECTION 5608 FIREWORKS DISPLAY 
5608.1 General. Outdoor fireworks displays, use of pyro­technics before a proximate audience and pyrotechnic special 
> 	effects in theatrical and group entertainment productions shall comply with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 6 Fireworks. 
5608.1.1 Scope. Fireworks and temporary storage, use, and handling ofpyrotechnic special effects material used in motion pictures, television, and theatrical and group entertainment productions shall be in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 6 Fireworks. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 57 -FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section [T-19 §3.15] 5704.2.1 5704.2.9.2.2 5706.5.1.11  X X X  X X  

..
. . . 

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVIsiOn I proviSions that are found m the Californw Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 57 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
SECTION 5701 
GENERAL 


5701.1 Scope and application. Prevention, control and miti­gation of dangerous conditions related to storage, use, dis­pensing, mixing and handling of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chap­ter. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.15] Flammable and Combustible Liquids. 
Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be placed, stored or handled in any occupancy within the scope of Cali­fornia Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1 regulations, except as provided in the California Fire Code. 
5701.2 Nonapplicability. This chapter shall not apply to liq­uids as otherwise provided in other laws or regulations or chapters of this code, including: 
1. 	
Specific provisions for flammable liquids in motor fuel-dispensing facilities, repair garages, airports and marinas in Chapter 23. 

2. 	
Medicines, foodstuffs, cosmetics, and commercial, institutional and industrial products containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids and with the remainder of the solution not being flammable, provided that such materials are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons (5 L). 

3. 	
Quantities of alcoholic beverages in retail or whole­sale sales or storage occupancies, provided that the 


liquids are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons (5 L). 

4. 	
Storage and use of fuel oil in tanks and containers connected to oil-burning equipment. Such storage and use shall be in accordance with Section 603. For aban­donment of fuel oil tanks, this chapter applies. 

5. 	
Refrigerant liquids and oils in refrigeration systems (see Section 606). 

6. 	
Storage and display of aerosol products complying with Chapter 51. 

7. 	
Storage and use of liquids that have no fire point when tested in accordance with ASTM D 92. 

8. 	
Liquids with a flash point greater than 95°F (35°C) in a water-miscible solution or dispersion with a water and inert (noncombustible) solids content of more than 80 percent by weight, which do not sustain com­bustion. 

9. 	
Liquids without flash points that can be flammable under some conditions, such as certain halogenated hydrocarbons and mixtures containing halogenated hydrocarbons. 


10. 
The storage of distilled spirits and wines in wooden 


barrels and casks. 5701.3 Referenced documents. The applicable requirements of Chapter 50, other chapters of this code, the California Building Code and the California Mechanical Code pertain­ing to flammable liquids shall apply. 
5701.4 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5701.5 Material classification. Flammable and combustible liquids shall be classified in accordance with the definitions in Chapter 2. 
When mixed with lower flash-point liquids, Class II or III liquids are capable of assuming the characteristics of the lower flash-point liquids. Under such conditions, the appro­priate provisions of this chapter for the actual flash point of the mixed liquid shall apply. 
When heated above their flash points, Class II and III liq­uids assume the characteristics of Class I liquids. Under such conditions, the appropriate provisions of this chapter for flammable liquids shall apply. 
SECTION 5702 
DEFINITIONS 


5702.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
ALCOHOL-BASED HAND RUB. 
BULK PLANT OR TERMINAL. 
BULK TRANSFER. 
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID. Class II. Class IliA. Class IIIB. 
FIRE POINT. 
FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Class IA. Class IB. ClassIC. 
FLASH POINT. 
FUEL LIMIT SWITCH. 
LIQUID STORAGE ROOM. 
LIQUID STORAGE WAREHOUSE. 
MOBILE FUELING. 
PROCESS TRANSFER. 
REFINERY. 
REMOTE EMERGENCY SHUTOFF DEVICE. 
REMOTE SOLVENT RESERVOIR. 
SOLVENT DISTILLATION UNIT. 
TANK, PRIMARY. 
SECTION 5703 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


5703.1 Electrical. Electrical wiring and equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with Section 605 and 
California Electrical Code. 
5703.1.1 Classified locations for flammable liquids. Areas where flammable liquids are stored, handled, dis­pensed or mixed shall be in accordance with Table 5703 .l.l. A classified area shall not extend beyond an unpierced floor, roof or other solid partition. 
The extent of the classified area is allowed to be reduced, or eliminated, where sufficient technical justifi­cation is provided to the fire code official that a concentra­tion in the area in excess of 25 percent of the lower flammable limit (LFL) cannot be generated. 
5703.1.2 Classified locations for combustible liquids. Areas where Class II or III liquids are heated above their flash points shall have electrical installations in accor­dance with Section 5703.1.1. 
Exception: Solvent distillation units in accordance with Section 5705.4. 
5703.1.3 Other applications. The fire code official is authorized to determine the extent of the Class I electrical equipment and wiring location when a condition is not specifically covered by these requirements or the Califor­nia Electrical Code. 
5703.2 Fire protection. Fire protection for the storage, use, dispensing, mixing, handling and on-site transportation of flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with this chapter and applicable sections of Chapter 9. 
5703.2.1 Portable fire extinguishers and hose lines. Por­table fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with Section 906. Hose lines shall be provided in accor­dance with Section 905. 
5703.3 Site assessment. In the event of a spill, leak or dis­charge from a tank system, a site assessment shall be com­pleted by the owner or operator of such tank system if the fire code official determines that a potential fire or explosion haz­ard exists. Such site assessments shall be conducted to ascer­tain potential fire hazards and shall be completed and submitted to the fire department within a time period estab­lished by the fire code official, not to exceed 60 days. 
5703.4 Spill control and secondary containment. Where the maximum allowable quantity per control area is exceeded, and when required by Section 5004.2, rooms, buildings or areas used for storage, dispensing, use, mixing or handling of Class I, II and IliA liquids shall be provided with spill control and secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2. 
5703.5 Labeling and signage. The fire code official is autho­rized to require warning signs for the purpose of identifying the hazards of storing or using flammable liquids. Signage for identification and warning such as for the inherent hazard of flammable liquids or smoking shall be provided in accor­dance with this chapter and Sections 5003.5 and 5003.6. 
5703.5.1 Style. Warning signs shall be of a durable mate­rial. Signs warning of the hazard of flammable liquids shall have white lettering on a red background and shall read: DANGER-FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Letters shall not be less than 3 inches (76 mm) in height and 1inch
/2 

(12.7 mm) in stroke. 
5703.5.2 Location. Signs shall be posted in locations as required by the fire code official. Piping containing flam­mable liquids shall be identified in accordance with ASMEA13.1. 
"' 

0 
..... 
c.:> 
0 
)> r :;; 
0 
JJ 
z 
5> 
::!! 
JJ 
m 
0 0 
0 
m 
TABLE 5703.1.1 
CLASS I ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS" 


LOCATION  GROUP D DIVISION  EXTENT OF CLASSIFIED AREA  
Underground tank fill opening  1 2  Pits, boxes or spaces below grade level, any part of which is within the Division 1 or 2 classified area. Up to 18 inches above grade level within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from a loose-fill connection and within a horizontal radius of 5 feet from a tight-fill connection.  
Vent-Discharging upward  1 2  Within 3 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 5 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions.  
Drum and container riiling Outdoor or indoor with adequate ventilation  1 2  Within 3 feet of vent and fill opening, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from vent of fill opening, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above floor or grade level within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from vent or fill opening.  
Pumps, bleeders, withdrawal fittings, meters and similar devices Indoor Outdoor  2 2  Within 5 feet of any edge of such devices, extending in all directions. Also up to 3 feet above floor or grade level within 25 feet horizontally from any edge of such devices. Within 3 feet of any edge of such devices, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above floor or grade level within 10 feet horizontally from an edge of such devices.  
Pits Without mechanical ventilation With mechanical ventilation Containing valves, fittings or piping, and not within a Division 1 or 2 classified area  1 2 2  Entire area within pit if any part is within a Division 1 or 2 classified area. Entire area within pit if any part is within a Division 1 or 2 classified area. Entire pit.  
Drainage ditches, separators, impounding basins Indoor Outdoor  1or2 2  Same as pits. Area up to 18 inches above ditch, separator or basin. Also up to 18 inches above grade within 15 feet horizontal from any edge.  
Tank vehicle and tank carb Loading through open dome Loading through bottom connections with atmospheric venting  1 2 1 2  Within 3 feet of edge of dome, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 15 feet from edge of dome, extending in all directions. Within 3 feet of point of venting to atmosphere, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 15 feet from point of venting to atmosphere, extending in all direc­tions. Also up to 18 inches above grade within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from point of loading connection.  

., 
r 
)>
s:
s: 
)> Ill 
r 
• m (continued) z )> 
0 
0 
0
s: 
Ill
c: 
~ 
ffi 
r 
m r 
5 
c: 
c 
en 
1\) 
0
.... 
(o) 
0 
)> 
r 
:;; 
0 
::tJ 
z 
:; 
"TI 
ii 
m 0 
0 
c 
m 
TABLE 5703.1.1-continued 
CLASS I ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS• 

LOCATION  GROUP D DIVISION  EXTENT OF CLASSIFIED AREA  
Tank vehicle and tank carb--continued Loading through closed dome with atmospheric venting Loading through closed dome with vapor control Bottom loading with vapor control or any bottom unloading  1 2 2 2  Within 3 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 15 feet from open end of vent, extending in all directions. Also within 3 feet of edge of dome, extending in all directions. Within 3 feet of point of connection of both fill and vapor lines, extending in all directions. Within 3 feet of point of connection, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above grade within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from point of connection.  
Storage and repair garage for tank vehicles  1 2  Pits or spaces below floor level. Area up to 18 inches above floor or grade level for entire storage or repair garage.  
Garages for other than tank vehicles  Ordinary  Where there is an opening to these rooms within the extent of an outdoor classified area, the entire room shall be classified the same as the area classification at the point of the opening.  
Outdoor drum storage  Ordinary  - 
Indoor warehousing where there is no flammable liquid transfer  Ordinary  Where there is an opening to these rooms within the extent of an indoor classified area, the room shall be classified the same as if the wall, curb or partition did not exist.  
Indoor equipment where flammable vapor/air mixtures could exist under normal operations  1 2  Area within 5 feet of any edge of such equipment, extending in all directions. Area between 5 feet and 8 feet of any edge of such equipment, extending in all directions. Also, area up to 3 feet above floor or grade level within 5 feet to 25 feet horizontally from any edge of such equipment.c  
Outdoor equipment where flammable vapor/air mixtures could exist under normal operations  1 2  Area within 3 feet of any edge of such equipment, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 8 feet of any edge of such equipment extending in all directions. Also, area up to 3 feet above floor or grade level within 3 feet to 10 feet horizontally from any edge of such equipment.  
Tank--Aboveground Shell, ends or roof and dike area Vent Floating roof  1 2 1 2 1  Area inside dike where dike height is greater than the distance from the tank to the dike for more than 50 percent of the tank circumference. Area within 10 feet from shell, ends or roof of tank. Area inside dikes to level of top of dike. Area within 5 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions. Area between 5 feet and 10 feet from open end of vent, extending in all directions. Area above the roof and within the shell.  
Office and restrooms  Ordinary  Where there is an opening to these rooms within the extent of an indoor classified location, the room shall be classified the same as if the wall, curb or partition did not exist.  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 
Locations as classified in the California Electrical Code. 

b. 
When classifying extent of area, consideration shall be given to the fact that tank cars or tank vehicles can be spotted at varying points. Therefore, the extremities of the loading or unloading positions shall be used. 

c. 
The release of Class I liquids can generate vapors to the extent that the entire building, and possibly a zone surrounding it, are considered a Class I, Division 2 location. 


"TI 
r 
)>
s::
s:: 
)> 
m 
r 
m 
)> 
z 
c 
0 
0
s:: 
m 
c: 
en 
-1 
ffi 
r 
m 
r 0 
c: 
a 
en 
5703.5.3 Warning labels. Individual containers, packages and cartons shall be identified, marked, labeled and plac­arded in accordance with federal regulations and applica­ble state laws. 
5703.5.4 Identification. Color coding or other approved identification means shall be provided on each loading and unloading riser for flammable or combustible liquids to identify the contents of the tank served by the riser. 

5703.6 Piping systems. Piping systems, and their component parts, for flammable and combustible liquids shall be in accordance with Sections 5703.6.1 through 5703.6.11. 
5703.6.1 Nonapplicability. The provisions of Section 5703.6 shall not apply to gas or oil well installations; pip­ing that is integral to stationary or portable engines, including aircraft, watercraft and motor vehicles; and pip­ing in connection with boilers and pressure vessels regu­lated by the California Mechanical Code. 
5703.6.2 Design, fabrication and installation of piping systems and components. Piping system components shall be designed and fabricated in accordance with the applicable standard listed in Table 5703.6.2 and Chapter 27 of NFPA 30, except as modified by Section 5703.6.2.1. 

TABLE 5703.6.2 
PIPING STANDARDS 


PIPING USE  STANDARD  
Power Piping  ASMEB31.1  
Process Piping  ASMEB31.3  
Pipeline Transportation Systems for Liquid Hydrocarbons and Other Liquids  ASMEB31.4  
Building Services Piping  ASMEB31.9  

5703.6.2.1 Special materials. Low-melting-point materials (such as aluminum, copper or brass), materi­als that soften on fire exposure (such as nonmetallic materials) and nonductile material (such as cast iron) shall be acceptable for use underground in accordance with the applicable standard listed in Table 5703.6.2. When such materials are used outdoors in above­ground piping systems or within buildings, they shall be in accordance with the applicable standard listed in Table 5703.6.2 and one of the following: 
1. 	
Suitably protected against fire exposure. 

2. 	
Located where leakage from failure would not unduly expose people or structures. 

3. 	
Located where leakage can be readily controlled by operation of accessible remotely located valves. 


In all cases, nonmetallic piping shall be used in 
accordance with Section 27.4.6 ofNFPA 30. 5703.6.3 Testing. Unless tested in accordance with the applicable section of ASME B31.9, piping, before being covered, enclosed or placed in use, shall be hydrostatically tested to 150 percent of the maximum anticipated pressure of the system, or pneumatically tested to 110 percent of the maximum anticipated pressure of the system, but not less than 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (34.47 kPa) at the highest point of the system. This test shall be 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
maintained for a sufficient time period to complete visual inspection of joints and connections. For a minimum of 10 minutes, there shall be no leakage or permanent distortion. Care shall be exercised to ensure that these pressures are not applied to vented storage tanks. Such storage tanks shall be tested independently from the piping. 
5703.6.3.1 Existing piping. Existing piping shall be tested in accordance with this section when the fire code official has reasonable cause to believe that a leak exists. Piping that could contain flammable or combus­tible liquids shall not be tested pneumatically. Such tests shall be at the expense of the owner or operator. 
Exception: Vapor-recovery piping is allowed to be tested using an inert gas. 

5703.6.4 Protection from vehicles. Guard posts or other approved means shall be provided to protect piping, valves or fittings subject to vehicular damage in accordance with Section 312. 
5703.6.5 Protection from external corrosion and gal­vanic action. Where subject to external corrosion, piping, related fluid-handling components and supports for both underground and above-ground applications shall be fabri­cated from noncorrosive materials, and coated or provided with corrosion protection. Dissimilar metallic parts that promote galvanic action shall not be joined. 
5703.6.6 Valves. Piping systems shall contain a sufficient number of manual control valves and check valves to operate the system properly and to protect the plant under both normal and emergency conditions. Piping systems in connection with pumps shall contain a sufficient number of such valves to control properly the flow of liquids in normal operation and in the event of physical damage or fire exposure. 
5703.6.6.1 Backflow protections. Connections to pipelines or piping by which equipment (such as tank cars, tank vehicles or marine vessels) discharges liquids into storage tanks shall be provided with check valves or block valves for automatic protection against back­flow where the piping arrangement is such that back­flow from the system is possible. Where loading and unloading is done through a common pipe system, a check valve is not required. However, a block valve shall be provided which is located so as to be readily accessible or remotely operable. 
5703.6.6.2 Manual drainage. Manual drainage-control valves shall be located at approved locations remote from the tanks, diked area, drainage system and impounding basin to ensure their operation in a fire condition. 

5703.6.7 Connections. Above-ground tanks with connec­tions located below normal liquid level shall be provided with internal or external isolation valves located as close as practical to the shell of the tank. Except for liquids whose chemical characteristics are incompatible with steel, such valves, when external, and their connections to the tank shall be of steel. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5703.6.8 Piping supports. Piping systems shall be sub­stantially supported and protected against physical damage and excessive stresses arising from settlement, vibration, expansion, contraction or exposure to fire. The supports shall be protected against exposure to fire by one of the following: 
1. 	
Draining liquid away from the piping system at a minimum slope of not less than 1 percent. 

2. 	
Providing protection with a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours. 

3. 	
Other approved methods. 


5703.6.9 Flexible joints. Flexible joints shall be listed and approved and shall be installed on underground liquid, vapor and vent piping at all of the following locations: 
1. 	
Where piping connects to underground tanks. 

2. 
Where piping ends at pump islands and vent risers. 

3. 	
At points where differential movement in the piping can occur. 


5703.6.9.1 Fiberglass-reinforced plastic piping. Fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) piping is not required to be provided with flexible joints in locations where both of the following conditions are present: 
1. 	
Piping does not exceed 4 inches (102 mm) in diameter. 

2. 	
Piping has a straight run of not less than 4 feet (1219 mm) on one side of the connection when such connections result in a change of direction. 



In lieu of the minimum 4-foot (1219 mm) straight run length, approved and listed flexible joints are allowed to be used under dispensers and suction pumps, at submerged pumps and tanks, and where vents extend above ground. 
5703.6.10 Pipe joints. Joints shall be liquid tight and shall be welded, flanged or threaded except that listed flexible connectors are allowed in accordance with Section 5703.6.9. Threaded or flanged joints shall fit tightly by using approved methods and materials for the type of joint. Joints in piping systems used for Class I liquids shall be welded when located in concealed spaces within build­ings. 
Nonmetallic joints shall be approved and shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instruc­tions. 
Pipe joints that are dependent on the friction character­istics or resiliency of combustible materials for liquid tightness of piping shall not be used in buildings. Piping shall be secured to prevent disengagement at the fitting. 
5703.6.11 Bends. Pipe and tubing shall be bent in accor­dance with ASME B31.9. 
SECTION 5704 
STORAGE 


5704.1 General. The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in containers and tanks shall be in accordance with this section and the applicable sections of Chapter 50. 
5704.2 Tank storage. The provisions of this section shall apply to: 
1. 	
The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in fixed above-ground and underground tanks. 

2. 	
The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in fixed above-ground tanks inside of buildings. 

3. 	
The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in portable tanks whose capacity exceeds 660 gallons (2498 L). 

4. 
The installation of such tanks and portable tanks. 5704.2.1 Change of tank contents. Tanks subject to change in contents shall be in accordance with Section 


5704.2.7. Prior to a change in contents, the fire code offi­cial is authorized to require testing of a tank. 
Tanks that have previously contained Class I liquids shall not be loaded with Class II or Class III liquids until such tanks and all piping, pumps, hoses and meters con­nected thereto have been completely drained and flushed. 
Exception: When approved by the Enforcing Agency, the procedures prescribed in API (API-RP-2003) Rec­ommended Practices 2003, entitled: "Protection Against Ignitions Arising Out of Static, Lightning, and Stray Currents, " may be used for changing tank con­tents. 
5704.2.2 Use of tank vehicles and tank cars as storage tanks. Tank cars and tank vehicles shall not be used as storage tanks. 
5704.2.3 Labeling and signs. Labeling and signs for stor­age tanks and storage tank areas shall comply with Sec­tions 5704.2.3.1 and 5704.2.3.2. 
5704.2.3.1 Smoking and open flame. Signs shall be posted in storage areas prohibiting open flames and smoking. Signs shall comply with Section 5703.5. 
5704.2.3.2 Label or placard. Tanks more than 100 gallons (379 L) in capacity, which are permanently installed or mounted and used for the storage of Class I, II or III liquids, shall bear a label and placard identify­ing the material therein. Placards shall be in accordance with NFP A 704. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tanks of 300-gallon (1136 L) capacity or less located on private property and used for heat­ing and cooking fuels in single-family dwell­ings. 

2. 
Tanks located underground. 


5704.2.4 Sources of ignition. Smoking and open flames are prohibited in storage areas in accordance with Section 5003.7. 
Exception: Areas designated as smoking and hot work areas, and areas where hot work permits have been issued in accordance with this code. 
5704.2.5 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be provided in accordance with Section 911. 
5704.2.6 Separation from incompatible materials. Stor­age of flammable and combustible liquids shall be sepa­rated from incompatible materials in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
Grass, weeds, combustible materials and waste Class I, II or IliA liquids shall not be accumulated in an unsafe manner at a storage site. 
5704.2.7 Design, construction and general installation requirements for tanks. The design, fabrication and con­struction of tanks shall comply with NFP A 30. Each tank shall bear a permanent nameplate or marking indicating the standard used as the basis of design. 
5704.2.7.1 Materials used in tank construction. The materials used in tank construction shall be in accor­dance with NFP A 30. 
5704.2.7.2 Pressure limitations for tanks. Tanks shall be designed for the pressures to which they will be sub­jected in accordance with NFP A 30. 
5704.2.7.3 Tank vents for normal venting. Tank vents for normal venting shall be installed and main­tained in accordance with Sections 5704.2.7.3.1 through 5704.2.7.3.6. 
5704.2.7.3.1 Vent lines. Vent lines from tanks shall not be used for purposes other than venting unless approved. 
5704.2.7.3.2 Vent-line flame arresters and pres­sure-vacuum vents. Listed or approved flame arresters or pressure-vacuum (PV) vents that remain closed unless venting under pressure or vacuum conditions shall be installed in normal vents of tanks containing Class IB and IC liquids. 
Exception: When determined by the fire code official that the use of such devices can result in damage to the tank. 
Vent-line flame arresters shall be installed in accordance with their listing or API 2000 and main­tained in accordance with Section 21.8.6 of NFPA 30 or API 2000. In-line flame arresters in piping sys­tems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with their listing or API 2028. Pressure-vacuum vents shall be installed in accordance with Section 
21.4.3 of NFPA 30 or API 2000 and maintained in accordance with Section 21.8.6 of NFPA 30 or API 2000. 
5704.2.7.3.3 Vent pipe outlets. Vent pipe outlets for tanks storing Class I, II or IliA liquids shall be located such that the vapors are released at a safe point outside of buildings and not less than 12 feet 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
(3658 mm) above the finished ground level. Vapors shall be discharged upward or horizontally away from adjacent walls to assist in vapor dispersion. Vent outlets shall be located such that flammable vapors will not be trapped by eaves or other obstruc­tions and shall be at least 5 feet (1524 mm) from building openings or lot lines of properties that can be built upon. Vent outlets on atmospheric tanks storing Class IIIB liquids are allowed to discharge inside a building if the vent is a normally closed vent. 
Exception: Vent pipe outlets on tanks storing Class IIIB liquid inside buildings and connected to fuel-burning equipment shall be located such that the vapors are released to a safe location out­side of buildings. 
5704.2.7.3.4 Installation of vent piping. Vent pip­ing shall be designed, sized, constructed and installed in accordance with Section 5703.6. Vent pipes shall be installed such that they will drain toward the tank without sags or traps in which liquid can collect. Vent pipes shall be installed in such a manner so as not to be subject to physical damage or vibration. 
5704.2.7.3.5 Manifolding. Tank vent piping shall not be manifolded unless required for special pur­poses such as vapor recovery, vapor conservation or air pollution control. 
5704.2.7.3.5.1 Above-ground tanks. For above­ground tanks, manifolded vent pipes shall be ade­quately sized to prevent system pressure limits from being exceeded when manifolded tanks are subject to the same fire exposure. 
5704.2.7.3.5.2 Underground tanks. For under­ground tanks, manifolded vent pipes shall be sized to prevent system pressure limits from being exceeded when manifolded tanks are filled simultaneous!y. 
5704.2.7.3.5.3 Tanks storing Class I liquids. Vent piping for tanks storing Class I liquids shall not be manifolded with vent piping for tanks stor­ing Class II and III liquids unless positive means are provided to prevent the vapors from Class I liquids from entering tanks storing Class II and III liquids, to prevent contamination and possible change in classification of less volatile liquid. 
5704.2.7.3.6 Tank venting for tanks and pressure vessels storing Class IB and IC liquids. Tanks and pressure vessels storing Class IB or IC liquids shall be equipped with venting devices which shall be normally closed except when venting under pressure or vacuum conditions, or with listed flame arresters. The vents shall be installed and maintained in accor­dance with Section 21.4.3 ofNFPA 30 or API 2000. 
5704.2.7.4 Emergency venting. Stationary, above­
ground tanks shall be equipped with additional venting 
that will relieve excessive internal pressure caused by 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
exposure to fires. Emergency vents for Class I, II and IliA liquids shall not discharge inside buildings. The venting shall be installed and maintained in accordance with Section 22.7 ofNFPA 30. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tanks larger than 12,000 gallons (45 420 L) in capacity storing Class IIIB liquids which are not within the diked area or the drainage path of Class I or II liquids do not require emer­gency relief venting. 

2. 	
Emergency vents on protected above-ground tanks complying with UL 2085 containing Class II or IliA liquids are allowed to dis­charge inside the building. 



5704.2.7.5 Tank openings other than vents. Tank openings for other than vents shall comply with Sec­tions 5704.2.7.5.1 through 5704.2.7.5.8. 
5704.2.7.5.1 Connections below liquid level. Con­nections for tank openings below the liquid level shall be liquid tight. 
5704.2.7.5.2 Filling, emptying and vapor recovery connections. Filling, emptying and vapor recovery connections to tanks containing Class I, II or IliA liquids shall be located outside of buildings in accor­dance with Section 5704.2.7.5.6 at a location free from sources of ignition and not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) away from building openings or lot lines of property that can be built upon. Such openings shall be properly identified and provided with a liq­uid-tight cap which shall be closed when not in use. 
Filling and emptying connections to indoor tanks containing Class IIIB liquids and connected to fuel­burning equipment shall be located at a finished ground level location outside of buildings. Such openings shall be provided with a liquid-tight cap which shall be closed when not in use. A sign in accordance with Section 5003.6 that displays the following warning shall be permanently attached at the filling location: 
TRANSFERRING FUEL OTHER THAN 
CLASS IIIB COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID TO 
THIS TANK CONNECTION IS A VIOLATION 
OF THE FIRE CODE AND IS STRICTLY 
PROHIBITED 

5704.2.7.5.3 Piping, connections and fittings. Pip­ing, connections, fittings and other appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with Section 5703.6. 
5704.2.7.5.4 Manual gauging. Openings for man­ual gauging, if independent of the fill pipe, shall be provided with a liquid-tight cap or cover. Covers shall be kept closed when not gauging. If inside a building, such openings shall be protected against liquid overflow and possible vapor release by means of a spring-loaded check valve or other approved device. 

5704.2.7.5.5 Fill pipes and discharge lines. For top-loaded tanks, a metallic fill pipe shall be designed and installed to minimize the generation of static electricity by terminating the pipe within 6 inches (152 mm) of the bottom of the tank, and it shall be installed in a manner which avoids exces­sive vibration. 
5704.2.7.5.5.1 Class I liquids. For Class I liquids other than crude oil, gasoline and asphalt, the fill pipe shall be designed and installed in a manner which will minimize the possibility of generating static electricity by terminating within 6 inches (15 2 mm) of the bottom of the tank. 
5704.2.7.5.5.2 Underground tanks. For under­ground tanks, fill pipe and discharge lines shall enter only through the top. Fill lines shall be sloped toward the tank. Underground tanks for Class I liquids having a capacity greater than 1,000 gallons (3785 L) shall be equipped with a tight fill device for connecting the fill hose to the tank. 

5704.2.7.5.6 Location of connections that are made or broken. Filling, withdrawal and vapor­recovery connections for Class I, II and IliA liquids which are made and broken shall be located outside of buildings, not more than 5 feet (1524 mm) above the finished ground level, in an approved location in close proximity to the parked delivery vehicle. Such location shall be away from sources of ignition and not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) away from building openings. Such connections shall be closed and liq­uid tight when not in use and shall be properly iden­tified. 
5704.2.7.5.7 Protection against vapor release. Tank openings provided for purposes of vapor recovery shall be protected against possible vapor release by means of a spring-loaded check valve or dry-break connections, or other approved device, unless the opening is a pipe connected to a vapor processing system. Openings designed for combined fill and vapor recovery shall also be protected against vapor release unless connection of the liquid delivery line to the fill pipe simultaneously connects the vapor recovery line. Connections shall be vapor tight. 
5704.2.7.5.8 Overfill prevention. An approved means or method in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7.6 shall be provided to prevent the overfill of all Class I, II and IliA liquid storage tanks. Stor­age tanks in refineries, bulk plants or terminals regu­lated by Section 5706.4 or 5706.7 shall have overfill protection in accordance with API 2350. 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
An approved means or method in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7.6 shall be provided to pre­vent the overfilling of Class IIIB liquid storage tanks connected to fuel-burning equipment inside build­ings. 
Exception: Outside above-ground tanks with a capacity of 1,320 gallons (5000 L) or less. 
5704.2.7.6 Repair, alteration or reconstruction of tanks and piping. The repair, alteration or reconstruc­tion, including welding, cutting and hot tapping of stor­age tanks and piping that have been placed in service, shall be in accordance with NFPA 30. 
5704.2.7.7 Design of supports. The design of the sup­porting structure for tanks shall be in accordance with the California Building Code and NFP A 30. 
5704.2.7.8 Locations subject to flooding. Where a tank is located in an area where it is subject to buoy­ancy because of a rise in the water table, flooding or accumulation of water from fire suppression opera­tions, uplift protection shall be provided in accordance with Sections 22.14 and 23.14 ofNFPA 30. 
5704.2.7.9 Corrosion protection. Where subject to external corrosion, tanks shall be fabricated from corro­sion-resistant materials, coated or provided with corro­sion protection in accordance with Section 23.3.4 of NFPA 30. 
5704.2.7.10 Leak reporting. A consistent or accidental loss of liquid, or other indication of a leak from a tank system, shall be reported immediately to the fire depart­ment, the fire code official and other authorities having jurisdiction. 
5704.2.7.10.1 Leaking tank disposition. Leaking tanks shall be promptly emptied, repaired and returned to service, abandoned or removed in accor­dance with Section 5704.2.13 or 5704.2.14. 
5704.2.7.11 Tank lining. Steel tanks are allowed to be lined only for the purpose of protecting the interior from corrosion or providing compatibility with a mate­rial to be stored. Only those liquids tested for compati­bility with the lining material are allowed to be stored in lined tanks. 
5704.2.8 Vaults. Vaults shall be allowed to be either 
above or below grade and shall comply with Sections 
5704.2.8.1 through 5704.2.8.18. 
5704.2.8.1 Listing required. Vaults shall be listed in accordance with UL 2245. 
Exception: Where approved by the fire code offi­cial, below-grade vaults are allowed to be con­structed on site, provided that the design is in accordance with the California Building Code and that special inspections are conducted to verify structural strength and compliance of the installation with the approved design in accordance with Section 1707 of the California Building Code. Installation plans for below-grade vaults that are constructed on site shall be prepared by, and the design shall bear the stamp of, a professional engineer. Consideration shall be given to soil and hydrostatic loading on the floors, walls and lid; anticipated seismic forces; uplifting by groundwater or flooding; and to loads imposed from above such as traffic and equipment loading on the vault lid. 
5704.2.8.2 Design and construction. The vault shall completely enclose each tank. There shall be no open­ings in the vault enclosure except those necessary for access to, inspection of, and filling, emptying and vent­ing of the tank. The walls and floor of the vault shall be constructed of reinforced concrete at least 6 inches (152 mm) thick. The top of an above-grade vault shall be constructed of noncombustible material and shall be designed to be weaker than the walls of the vault, to ensure that the thrust of an explosion occurring inside the vault is directed upward before significantly high pressure can develop within the vault. 
The top of an at-grade or below-grade vault shall be designed to relieve safely or contain the force of an explosion occurring inside the vault. The top and floor of the vault and the tank foundation shall be designed to withstand the anticipated loading, including loading from vehicular traffic, where applicable. The walls and floor of a vault installed below grade shall be designed to withstand anticipated soil and hydrostatic loading. 
Vaults shall be designed to be wind and earthquake resistant, in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5704.2.8.3 Secondary containment. Vaults shall be substantially liquid tight and there shall be no backfill around the tank or within the vault. The vault floor shall drain to a sump. For premanufactured vaults, liq­uid tightness shall be certified as part of the listing pro­vided by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. For field-erected vaults, liquid tightness shall be certified in an approved manner. 
5704.2.8.4 Internal clearance. There shall be suffi­cient clearance between the tank and the vault to allow for visual inspection and maintenance of the tank and its appurtenances. Dispensing devices are allowed to be installed on tops of vaults. 
5704.2.8.5 Anchoring. Vaults and their tanks shall be suitably anchored to withstand uplifting by ground water or flooding, including when the tank is empty. 
5704.2.8.6 Vehicle impact protection. Vaults shall be resistant to damage from the impact of a motor vehicle, or vehicle impact protection shall be provided in accor­dance with Section 312. 
5704.2.8.7 Arrangement. Tanks shall be listed for above-ground use, and each tank shall be in its own vault. Compartmentalized tanks shall be allowed and shall be considered as a single tank. Adjacent vaults shall be allowed to share a common wall. The common wall shall be liquid and vapor tight and shall be designed to withstand the load imposed when the vault on either side of the wall is filled with water. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5704.2.8.8 Connections. Connections shall be pro­vided to permit venting of each vault to dilute, disperse and remove vapors prior to personnel entering the vault. 
5704.2.8.9 Ventilation. Vaults that contain tanks of Class I liquids shall be provided with an exhaust venti­lation system installed in accordance with Section 5004.3. The ventilation system shall operate continu­ously or be designed to operate upon activation of the vapor or liquid detection system. The system shall pro­vide ventilation at a rate of not less than 1 cubic foot per minute (cfm) per square foot of floor area [0.00508 m3/(s · m2)], but not less than 150 cfm (4m3/min). The exhaust system shall be designed to provide air move­ment across all parts of the vault floor. Supply and exhaust ducts shall extend to within 3 inches (76 mm), but not more than 12 inches (305 mm), of the floor. The exhaust system shall be installed in accordance with the 
California Mechanical Code. 
5704.2.8.10 Liquid detection. Vaults shall be equipped with a detection system capable of detecting liquids, including water, and activating an alarm. 
5704.2.8.11 Monitoring and detection. Vaults shall be provided with approved vapor and liquid detection sys­tems and equipped with on-site audible and visual warning devices with battery backup. Vapor detection systems shall sound an alarm when the system detects vapors that reach or exceed 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the liquid stored. Vapor detec­tors shall be located no higher than 12 inches (305 mm) above the lowest point in the vault. Liquid detection systems shall sound an alarm upon detection of any liq­uid, including water. Liquid detectors shall be located in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Activation of either vapor or liquid detection systems shall cause a signal to be sounded at an approved, con­stantly attended location within the facility serving the tanks or at an approved location. Activation of vapor detection systems shall also shut off dispenser pumps. 
5704.2.8.12 Liquid removal. Means shall be provided to recover liquid from the vault. Where a pump is used to meet this requirement, the pump shall not be perma­nently installed in the vault. Electric-powered portable pumps shall be suitable for use in Class I, Division 1, or Zone 0 locations, as defined in the California Electrical Code. 
5704.2.8.13 Normal vents. Vent pipes that are pro­vided for normal tank venting shall terminate at least 12 feet (3658 mm) above ground level. 
5704.2.8.14 Emergency vents. Emergency vents shall be vapor tight and shall be allowed to discharge inside the vault. Long-bolt manhole covers shall not be allowed for this purpose. 
5704.2.8.15 Accessway. Vaults shall be provided with an approved personnel accessway with a minimum dimension of 30 inches (762 mm) and with a perma­nently affixed, nonferrous ladder. Accessways shall be designed to be nonsparking. Travel distance from any point inside a vault to an accessway shall not exceed 20 feet (6096 mm). At each entry point, a warning sign indicating the need for procedures for safe entry into confined spaces shall be posted. Entry points shall be secured against unauthorized entry and vandalism. 
5704.2.8.16 Fire protection. Vaults shall be provided with a suitable means to admit a fire suppression agent. 
5704.2.8.17 Classified area. The interior of a vault containing a tank that stores a Class I liquid shall be designated a Class I, Division 1, or Zone 0 location, as defined in the California Electrical Code. 
5704.2.8.18 Overfill protection. Overfill protection shall be provided in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7.6. The use of a float vent valve shall be pro­hibited. 
5704.2.9 Above-ground tanks. Above-ground storage of flammable and combustible liquids in tanks shall comply with Section 5704.2 and Sections 5704.2.9.1 through 5704.2.9.7.10. 
5704.2.9.1 Existing noncompliant installations. Existing above-ground tanks shall be maintained in accordance with the code requirements that were appli­cable at the time of installation. Above-ground tanks that were installed in violation of code requirements applicable at the time of installation shall be made code compliant or shall be removed in accordance with Sec­tion 5704.2.14, regardless of whether such tank has been previously inspected (see Section 106.4). 
5704.2.9.2 Fire protection. Fire protection for above­ground tanks shall comply with Sections 5704.2.9.2.1 through 5704.2.9.2.4. 
5704.2.9.2.1 Required foam fire protection sys­tems. When required by the fire code official, foam fire protection shall be provided for above-ground tanks, other than pressure tanks operating at or above 1 pound per square inch gauge (psig) (6.89 kPa) when such tank, or group of tanks spaced less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) apart measured shell to shell, has a liquid surface area in excess of 1,500 square feet (139 m2), and is in accordance with one of the following: 
1. 	
Used for the storage of Class I or II liquids. 

2. 	
Used for the storage of crude oil. 

3. 	
Used for in-process products and is located within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of a fired still, heater, related fractioning or processing appa­ratus or similar device at a processing plant or petroleum refinery as herein defined. 

4. 
Considered by the fire code official as posing an unusual exposure hazard because of topo­graphical conditions; nature of occupancy, proximity on the same or adjoining property, and height and character of liquids to be stored; degree of private fire protection to be provided; and facilities of the fire department to cope with flammable liquid fires. 


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
5704.2.9.2.2 Foam fire protection system installa­tion. Where foam fire protection is required, it shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 11 (Section 4.8) and NFPA JJA. 
5704.2.9.2.2.1 Foam storage. Where foam fire protection is required, foam-producing materials shall be stored on the premises. 
Exception: Storage of foam-producing mate­rials off the premises is allowed as follows: 
1. 	
Such materials stored off the premises shall be of the proper type suitable for use with the equipment at the installation where required. 

2. 	
Such materials shall be readily available at the storage location at all times. 

3. 	
Adequate loading and transportation facilities shall be provided. 

4. 	
The time required to deliver such materials to the required location in the event of fire shall be consistent with the hazards and fire scenarios for which the foam supply is intended. 

5. 	
At the time of a fire, these off-premises supplies shall be accumulated in sufficient quantities before placing the equipment in operation to ensure foam production at an adequate rate without interruption until extinguishment is accomplished. 


5704.2.9.2.3 Fire protection of supports. Supports or pilings for above-ground tanks storing Class I, II or IliA liquids elevated more than 12 inches (305 mm) above grade shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours in accordance with the fire exposure criteria specified in ASTM E 1529. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Structural supports tested as part of a pro­tected above-ground tank in accordance with UL 2085. 

2. 	
Stationary tanks located outside of build­ings when protected by an approved water­spray system designed in accordance with Chapter 9 and NFPA 15. 

3. 	
Stationary tanks located inside of buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system designed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 


5704.2.9.2.4 lnerting of tanks storing boilover liq­uids. Liquids with boilover characteristics shall not be stored in fixed roof tanks larger than 150 feet ( 45 720 mm) in diameter unless an approved gas enrich­ment or inerting system is provided on the tank. 
Exception: Crude oil storage tanks in production fields with no other exposures adjacent to the storage tank. 
5704.2.9.3 Supports, foundations and anchorage. Supports, foundations and anchorages for above­ground tanks shall be designed and constructed in accordance with NFP A 30 and the California Building Code. 
5704.2.9.4 Stairs, platforms and walkways. Stairs, platforms and walkways shall be of noncombustible construction and shall be designed and constructed in accordance with NFP A 30 and the California Building Code. 
5704.2.9.5 Above-ground tanks inside of buildings. Above-ground tanks inside of buildings shall comply with Sections 5704.2.9.5.1 and 5704.2.9.5.2. 
5704.2.9.5.1 Overfill prevention. Above-ground tanks storing Class I, II and IliA liquids inside build­ings shall be equipped with a device or other means to prevent overflow into the building including, but not limited to: a float valve; a preset meter on the fill line; a valve actuated by the weight of the tank's contents; a low-head pump that is incapable of pro­ducing overflow; or a liquid-tight overflow pipe at least one pipe size larger than the fill pipe and dis­charging by gravity back to the outside source of liq­uid or to an approved location. Tanks containing Class IIIB liquids and connected to fuel-burning equipment shall be provided with a means to prevent overflow into buildings in accordance with Section 5704.2.7.5.8. 
5704.2.9.5.2 Fill pipe connections. Fill pipe con­nections for tanks storing Class I, II and IliA liquids and Class IIIB liquids connected to fuel-burning equipment shall be in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7.7. 
5704.2.9.6 Above-ground tanks outside of buildings. Above-ground tanks outside of buildings shall comply with Sections 5704.2.9.6.1 through 5704.2.9.6.3. 
5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohib­ited within the limits established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage is prohibited (see Section 3 of the Sample Legislation for Adoption of the California Fire Code on page xxvi). 
5704.2.9.6.1.1 Location of tanks with pressures 
2.5 psig or less. Above-ground tanks operating at pressures not exceeding 2.5 psig (17 .2 kPa) for storage of Class I, II or IliA liquids, which are designed with a floating roof, a weak roof-to­shell seam or equipped with emergency venting devices limiting pressure to 2.5 psig (17.2 kPa), 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
shall be located in accordance with Table boundary, the fire code official is authorized to, 
22.4.l.l(a) ofNFPA 30. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Vertical tanks having a weak roof-to­shell seam and storing Class IliA liquids are allowed to be located at one-half the distances specified in Table 22.4.l.l(a) of NFP A 30, provided the tanks are not within a diked area or drainage path for a tank storing Class I or II liquids. 

2. 	
Liquids with boilover characteristics and unstable liquids in accordance with Sections 5704.2.9.6.1.3 and 5704.2.9.6.1.4. 

3. 	
For protected above-ground tanks in accordance with Section 5704.2.9.7 and tanks in at-grade or above-grade vaults in accordance with Section 5704.2.8, the distances in Table 22.4.1.1 (b) of NFP A 30 shall apply and shall be reduced by one-half, but not to less than 5 feet (1524 mm). 


5704.2.9.6.1.2 Location of tanks with pressures exceeding 2.5 psig. Above-ground tanks for the storage of Class I, II or IliA liquids operating at pressures exceeding 2.5 psig (17.2 kPa) or equipped with emergency venting allowing pres­sures to exceed 2.5 psig (17 .2 kPa) shall be located in accordance with Table 22.4.1.3 of NFPA 30. 
Exception: Liquids with boilover characteris­tics and unstable liquids in accordance with Sections 5704.2.9.6.1.4 and 5704.2.9.6.1.5. 
5704.2.9.6.1.3 Location of tanks storing boilover liquids. Above-ground tanks for storage of liquids with boilover characteristics shall be located in accordance with Table 22.4.1.4 of NFPA 30. 
5704.2.9.6.1.4 Location of tanks storing unsta­ble liquids. Above-ground tanks for the storage of unstable liquids shall be located in accordance with Table 22.4.1.5 ofNFPA 30. 
5704.2.9.6.1.5 Location of tanks storing Class IIIB liquids. Above-ground tanks for the storage of Class IIIB liquids, excluding unstable liquids, shall be located in accordance with Table 
22.4.1.6 of NFPA 30, except when located within a diked area or drainage path for a tank or tanks storing Class I or II liquids. Where a Class IIIB liquid storage tank is within the diked area or drainage path for a Class I or II liquid, distances required by Section 5704.2.9.6.1.1 shall apply. 
5704.2.9.6.1.6 Reduction of separation dis­tances to adjacent property. Where two tank properties of diverse ownership have a common 
with the written consent of the owners of the two properties, apply the distances in Sections 5704.2.9.6.1.2 through 5704.2.9.6.1.5 assuming a single property. 

5704.2.9.6.2 Separation between adjacent stable or unstable liquid tanks. The separation between tanks containing stable liquids shall be in accor­dance with Table 22.4.2.1 of NFP A 30. Where tanks are in a diked area containing Class I or II liquids, or in the drainage path of Class I or II liquids, and are compacted in three or more rows or in an itTegular pattern, the fire code official is authorized to require greater separation than specified in Table 22.4.2.1 of NFP A 30 or other means to make tanks in the inte­rior of the pattern accessible for fire-fighting pur­poses. 
Exception: Tanks used for storing Class IIIB liq­uids are allowed to be spaced 3 feet (914 mm) apart unless within a diked area or drainage path for a tank storing Class I or II liquids. 

The separation between tanks containing unsta­ble liquids shall not be less than one-half the sum of their diameters. 
5704.2.9.6.3 Separation between adjacent tanks containing flammable or combustible liquids and LP-gas. The minimum horizontal separation between an LP-gas container and a Class I, II or IliA liquid storage tank shall be 20 feet (6096 mm) except in the case of Class I, II or IliA liquid tanks operating at pressures exceeding 2.5 psig (17.2 kPa) or equipped with emergency venting allowing pres­sures to exceed 2.5 psig (17.2 kPa), in which case the provisions of Section 5704.2.9.6.2 shall apply. 
An approved means shall be provided to prevent the accumulation of Class I, II or IliA liquids under adjacent LP-gas containers such as by dikes, diver­sion curbs or grading. When flammable or combus­tible liquid storage tanks are within a diked area, the LP-gas containers shall be outside the diked area and at least 10 feet (3048 mm) away from the cen­terline of the wall of the diked area. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Liquefied petroleum gas containers of 125 gallons (473 L) or less in capacity installed adjacent to fuel-oil supply tanks of 660 gal­lons (2498 L) or less in capacity. 

2. 	
Horizontal separation is not required between above-ground LP-gas containers and underground flammable and combusti­ble liquid tanks. 



5704.2.9.7 Additional requirements for protected above-ground tanks. In addition to the requirements of this chapter for above-ground tanks, the installation of protected above-ground tanks shall be in accordance with Sections 5704.2.9.7.1 through 5704.2.9.7.10. 
5704.2.9.7.1 Tank construction. The construction of a protected above-ground tank and its primary tank shall be in accordance with Section 5704.2.7. 
5704.2.9.7.2 Normal and emergency venting. Nor­mal and emergency venting for protected above­ground tanks shall be provided in accordance with Sections 5704.2.7.3 and 5704.2.7.4. The vent capac­ity reduction factor shall not be allowed. 
5704.2.9.7.3 Flame arresters. Approved flame arresters or pressure vacuum breather valves shall be installed in normal vents. 
5704.2.9.7.4 Secondary containment. Protected above-ground tanks shall be provided with second­ary containment, drainage control or diking in accor­dance with Section 5004.2. A means shall be provided to establish the integrity of the secondary containment in accordance with NFPA 30. 
5704.2.9.7.5 Vehicle impact protection. Where protected above-ground tanks, piping, electrical con­duit or dispensers are subject to vehicular impact, they shall be protected therefrom, either by having the impact protection incorporated into the system design in compliance with the impact test protocol of UL 2085, or by meeting the provisions of Section 312, or where necessary, a combination of both. Where guard posts or other approved barriers are provided, they shall be independent of each above­ground tank. 
5704.2.9.7.6 Overfill prevention. Protected above­ground tanks shall not be filled in excess of 95 per­cent of their capacity. An overfill prevention system shall be provided for each tank. During tank-filling operations, the system shall comply with one of the following: 
1. 	The system shall: 
1.1. Provide 	an independent means of notifying the person filling the tank that the fluid level has reached 90 percent of tank capacity by providing an audible or visual alarm signal, providing a tank level gauge marked at 90 percent of tank capacity, or other approved means; and 
1.2. 
Automatically shut off the flow of fuel to the tank when the quantity of liquid in the tank reaches 95 percent of tank capacity. For rigid hose fuel-delivery systems, an approved means shall be provided to empty the fill hose into the tank after the automatic shutoff device is activated. 

2. 	
The system shall reduce the flow rate to not more than 15 gallons per minute (0.95 Lis) so that at the reduced flow rate, the tank will not overfill for 30 minutes, and automatically shut off flow into the tank so that none of the fit-


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
tings on the top of the tank are exposed to product because of overfilling. 
5704.2.9.7.6.1 Information signs. A permanent sign shall be provided at the fill point for the tank, documenting the filling procedure and the tank calibration chart. 
Exception: Where climatic conditions are such that the sign may be obscured by ice or snow, or weathered beyond readability or oth­erwise impaired, said procedures and chart shall be located in the office window, lock box or other area accessible to the person filling the tank. 
5704.2.9.7.6.2 Determination of available tank capacity. The filling procedure shall require the person filling the tank to determine the gallonage (literage) required to fill it to 90 percent of capac­ity before commencing the fill operation. 
5704.2.9.7.7 Fill pipe connections. The fill pipe shall be provided with a means for making a direct connection to the tank vehicle's fuel delivery hose so that the delivery of fuel is not exposed to the open air during the filling operation. Where any portion of the fill pipe exterior to the tank extends below the level of the top of the tank, a check valve shall be installed in the fill pipe not more than 12 inches (305 mm) from the fill hose connection. 
5704.2.9.7.8 Spill containers. A spill container hav­ing a capacity of not less than 5 gallons (19 L) shall be provided for each fill connection. For tanks with a top fill connection, spill containers shall be non­combustible and shall be fixed to the tank and equipped with a manual drain valve that drains into the primary tank. For tanks with a remote fill con­nection, a portable spill container shall be allowed. 
5704.2.9.7.9 Tank openings. Tank openings in pro­tected above-ground tanks shall be through the top only. 
5704.2.9.7.10 Antisiphon devices. Approved antisi­phon devices shall be installed in each external pipe connected to the protected above-ground tank when the pipe extends below the level of the top of the tank. 

5704.2.10 Drainage and diking. The area surrounding a tank or group of tanks shall be provided with drainage control or shall be diked to prevent accidental discharge of liquid from endangering adjacent tanks, adjoining prop­erty or reaching waterways. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	The fire code official is authorized to alter or waive these requirements based on a technical report which demonstrates that such tank or group of tanks does not constitute a hazard to other tanks, waterways or adjoining property, after consideration of special features such as topographical conditions, nature of occupancy and proximity to buildings on the same or adja­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
cent property, capacity, and construction of pro­posed tanks and character of liquids to be stored, and nature and quantity of private and public fire protection provided. 
2. 	Drainage control and diking is not required for listed secondary containment tanks. 

5704.2.10.1 Volumetric capacity. The volumetric capacity of the diked area shall not be less than the greatest amount of liquid that can be released from the largest tank within the diked area. The capacity of the diked area enclosing more than one tank shall be calcu­lated by deducting the volume of the tanks other than the largest tank below the height of the dike. 
5704.2.10.2 Diked areas containing two or more tanks. Diked areas containing two or more tanks shall be subdivided in accordance with NFP A 30. 
5704.2.10.3 Protection of piping from exposure fires. Piping shall not pass through adjacent diked areas or impounding basins, unless provided with a sealed sleeve or otherwise protected from exposure to fire. 
5704.2.10.4 Combustible materials in diked areas. Diked areas shall be kept free from combustible materi­als, drums and barrels. 
5704.2.10.5 Equipment, controls and piping in diked areas. Pumps, manifolds and fire protection equipment or controls shall not be located within diked areas or drainage basins or in a location where such equipment and controls would be endangered by fire in the diked area or drainage basin. Piping above ground shall be minimized and located as close as practical to the shell of the tank in diked areas or drainage basins. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Pumps, manifolds and piping integral to the tanks or equipment being served which is pro­tected by intermediate diking, berms, drainage or fire protection such as water spray, moni­tors or resistive coating. 

2. 	
Fire protection equipment or controls which are appurtenances to the tanks or equipment being protected, such as foam chambers or foam piping and water or foam monitors and hydrants, or hand and wheeled extinguishers. 



5704.2.11 Underground tanks. Underground storage of flammable and combustible liquids in tanks shall comply with Section 5704.2 and Sections 5704.2.11.1 through 5704.2.11.5.2. 
5704.2.11.1 Contents. Underground tanks shall not contain petroleum products containing mixtures of a nonpetroleum nature, such as ethanol or methanol blends, without evidence of compatibility. 
5704.2.11.2 Location. Flammable and combustible liq­uid storage tanks located underground, either outside or under buildings, shall be in accordance with all of the following: 
1. 	
Tanks shall be located with respect to existing foundations and supports such that the loads car­ried by the latter cannot be transmitted to the tank. 


2. 	
The distance from any part of a tank storing liq­uids to the nearest wall of a basement, pit, cellar or lot line shall not be less than 3 feet (914 mm). 

3. 
A minimum distance of 1 foot (305 mm), shell to shell, shall be maintained between underground tanks. 


5704.2.11.3 Depth and cover. Excavation for under­ground storage tanks shall be made with due care to avoid undermining of foundations of existing struc­tures. Underground tanks shall be set on firm founda­tions and surrounded with at least 6 inches (152 mm) of noncorrosive inert material, such as clean sand. 
5704.2.11.4 Overfill protection and prevention sys­tems. Fill pipes shall be equipped with a spill container and an overfill prevention system in accordance with NFPA 30. 
5704.2.11.5 Leak prevention. Leak prevention for underground tanks shall comply with Sections 5704.2.11.5.1 and 5704.2.11.5.2. 
5704.2.11.5.1 Inventory control. Daily inventory records shall be maintained for underground storage tank systems. 
5704.2.11.5.2 Leak detection. Underground storage tank systems shall be provided with an approved method of leak detection from any component of the system that is designed and installed in accordance with NFP A 30. 
5704.2.12 Testing. Tank testing shall comply with Sec­tions 5704.2.12.1 and 5704.2.12.2. 
5704.2.12.1 Acceptance testing. Prior to being placed into service, tanks shall be tested in accordance with Section 21.5 ofNFPA 30. 
5704.2.12.2 Testing of underground tanks. Before being covered or placed in use, tanks and piping con­nected to underground tanks shall be tested for tight­ness in the presence of the fire code official. Piping shall be tested in accordance with Section 5703.6.3. The system shall not be covered until it has been approved. 
5704.2.13 Abandonment and status of tanks. Tanks taken out of service shall be removed in accordance with Section 5704.2.14, or safeguarded in accordance with Sec­tions 5704.2.13.1 through 5704.2.13.2.3 and API 1604. 
5704.2.13.1 Underground tanks. Underground tanks taken out of service shall comply with Sections 5704.2.13.1.1 through 5704.2.13.1.5. 
5704.2.13.1.1 Temporarily out of service. Under­ground tanks temporarily out of service shall have the fill line, gauge opening, vapor return and pump connection secure against tampering. Vent lines shall remain open and be maintained in accordance with Sections 5704.2.7.3 and 5704.2.7.4. 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
5704.2.13.1.2 Out of service for 90 days. Under­ground tanks not used for a period of 90 days shall be safeguarded in accordance with all the following or be removed in accordance with Section 5704.2.14: 
1. 	
Flammable or combustible liquids shall be removed from the tank. 

2. 	
All piping, including fill line, gauge opening, vapor return and pump connection, shall be capped or plugged and secured from tamper­ing. 

3. 	
Vent lines shall remain open and be main­tained in accordance with Sections 5704.2.7.3 and 5704.2.7.4. 


5704.2.13.1.3 Out of service for one year. Under­ground tanks that have been out of service for a period of one year shall be removed from the ground in accordance with Section 5704.2.14 or abandoned in place in accordance with Section 5704.2.13.1.4. 
5704.2.13.1.4 Tanks abandoned in place. Tanks abandoned in place shall be as follows: 
1. 	
Flammable and combustible liquids shall be removed from the tank and connected piping. 

2. 	
The suction, inlet, gauge, vapor return and vapor lines shall be disconnected. 

3. 
The tank shall be filled completely with 	an approved inert solid material. 

4. 	
Remaining underground piping shall be capped or plugged. 

5. 
A record 	of tank size, location and date of abandonment shall be retained. 

6. 
All exterior above-grade fill piping shall be permanently removed when tanks are aban­doned or removed. 


5704.2.13.1.5 Reinstallation of underground tanks. Tanks which are to be reinstalled for flamma­ble or combustible liquid service shall be in accor­dance with this chapter, ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (Section VIII), API 12-P, API 1615, UL 58 and UL 1316. 
5704.2.13.2 Above-ground tanks. Above-ground tanks taken out of service shall comply with Sections 5704.2.13.2.1 through 5704.2.13.2.3. 
5704.2.13.2.1 Temporarily out of service. Above­ground tanks temporarily out of service shall have all connecting lines isolated from the tank and be secured against tampering. 
Exception: In-place fire protection (foam) sys­tem lines. 
5704.2.13.2.2 Out of service for 90 days. Above­ground tanks not used for a period of 90 days shall be safeguarded in accordance with Section 5704.2.13.1.2 or removed in accordance with Section 5704.2.14. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Tanks and containers connected to oil burn­ers that are not in use during the warm sea­son of the year or are used as a backup heating system to gas. 

2. 	
In-place, active fire protection (foam) sys­tem lines. 


5704.2.13.2.3 Out of service for one year. Above­ground tanks that have been out of service for a period of one year shall be removed in accordance with Section 5704.2.14. 

Exception: Tanks within operating facilities. 5704.2.14 Removal and disposal of tanks. Removal and disposal of tanks shall comply with Sections 5704.2.14.1 and 5704.2.14.2. 
5704.2.14.1 Removal. Removal of above-ground and underground tanks shall be in accordance with all of the following: 
1. 	
Flammable and combustible liquids shall be removed from the tank and connected piping. 

2. 	
Piping at tank openings that is not to be used fur­ther shall be disconnected. 

3. 	
Piping shall be removed from the ground. 

Exception: Piping is allowed to be abandoned in place where the fire code official deter­mines that removal is not practical. Aban­doned piping shall be capped and safeguarded as required by the fire code official. 

4. 	
Tank openings shall be capped or plugged, leav­ing a 1/ 8-inch to 1/ 4-inch-diameter (3.2 mm to 6.4 mm) opening for pressure equalization. 

5. 	
Tanks shall be purged of vapor and inerted prior to removal. 

6. 	
All exterior above-grade fill and vent piping shall be permanently removed. 


Exception: Piping associated with bulk plants, terminal facilities and refineries. 
5704.2.14.2 Disposal. Tanks shall be disposed of in 

accordance with federal, state and local regulations. 5704.2.15 Maintenance. Above-ground tanks, connected piping and ancillary equipment shall be maintained in a safe operating condition. Tanks shall be maintained in accordance with their listings. Damage to above-ground tanks, connected piping or ancillary equipment shall be repaired using materials having equal or greater strength and fire resistance or the equipment shall be replaced or taken out of service. 
5704.3 Container and portable tank storage. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids in closed containers that do not exceed 60 gallons (227 L) in individual capacity and 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
portable tanks that do not exceed 660 gallons (2498 L) in individual capacity, and limited transfers incidental thereto, shall comply with Sections 5704.3.1 through 5704.3.8.5. 
5704.3.1 Design, construction and capacity of contain­ers and portable tanks. The design, construction and capacity of containers for the storage of Class I, II and IliA liquids shall be in accordance with this section and Section 9.4 of NFPA 30. 
5704.3.1.1 Approved containers. Only approved con­
tainers and portable tanks shall be used. 5704.3.2 Liquid storage cabinets. Where other sections of this code require that liquid containers be stored in stor­age cabinets, such cabinets and storage shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5704.3.2.1 through 5704.3.2.2. 
5704.3.2.1 Design and construction of storage cabi­nets. Design and construction of liquid storage cabinets shall be in accordance with Sections 5704.3.2.1.1 through 5704.3.2.1.4. 
5704.3.2.1.1 Materials. Cabinets shall be listed in accordance with UL 1275, or constructed of approved wood or metal in accordance with the fol­lowing: 
1. 	
Unlisted metal cabinets shall be constructed of steel having a thickness of not less than 0.044 inch (1.12 mm) (18 gage). The cabinet, includ­ing the door, shall be double walled with 11/ 2­inch (38 mm) airspace between the walls. Joints shall be riveted or welded and shall be tight fitting. 

2. 	
Unlisted wooden cabinets, including doors, shall be constructed of not less than 1-inch (25 mm) exterior grade plywood. Joints shall be rabbeted and shall be fastened in two direc­tions with wood screws. Door hinges shall be of steel or brass. Cabinets shall be painted with an intumescent-type paint. 


5704.3.2.1.2 Labeling. Cabinets shall be provided with a conspicuous label in red letters on contrasting background which reads: FLAMMABLE-KEEP FIRE AWAY. 
5704.3.2.1.3 Doors. Doors shall be well fitted, self­closing and equipped with a three-point latch. 
5704.3.2.1.4 Bottom. The bottom of the cabinet shall be liquid tight to a height of at least 2 inches (51 mm). 

5704.3.2.2 Capacity. The combined total quantity of liquids in a cabinet shall not exceed 120 gallons ( 454 
L). 
5704.3.3 Indoor storage. Storage of flammable and com­bustible liquids inside buildings in containers and portable tanks shall be in accordance with Sections 5704.3.3.1 through 5704.3.3.10. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Liquids in the fuel tanks of motor vehicles, air­craft, boats or portable or stationary engines. 

2. 	The storage of distilled spirits and wines in wooden barrels or casks. 
5704.3.3.1 Portable fire extinguishers. Approved por­table fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with specific sections of this chapter and Section 906. 
5704.3.3.2 Incompatible materials. Materials that will react with water or other liquids to produce a hazard shall not be stored in the same room with flammable and combustible liquids in accordance with Section 5003.9.8. 
5704.3.3.3 Clear means of egress. Storage of any liq­uids, including stock for sale, shall not be stored near or be allowed to obstruct physically the route of egress. 
5704.3.3.4 Empty containers or portable tank stor­age. The storage of empty tanks and containers previ­ously used for the storage of flammable or combustible liquids, unless free from explosive vapors, shall be stored as required for filled containers and portable tanks. Portable tanks and containers, when emptied, shall have the covers or plugs immediately replaced in openings. 
5704.3.3.5 Shelf storage. Shelving shall be of approved construction, adequately braced and anchored. Seismic requirements shall be in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5704.3.3.5.1 Use of wood. Wood of at least 1 inch (25 mm) nominal thickness is allowed to be used as shelving, racks, dunnage, scuffboards, floor overlay and similar installations. 
5704.3.3.5.2 Displacement protection. Shelves shall be of sufficient depth and provided with a lip or guard to prevent individual containers from being displaced. 
Exception: Shelves in storage cabinets or on lab­oratory furniture specifically designed for such use. 

5704.3.3.5.3 Orderly storage. Shelf storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be main­tained in an orderly manner. 
5704.3.3.6 Rack storage. Where storage on racks is allowed elsewhere in this code, a minimum 4-foot-wide (1219 mm) aisle shall be provided between adjacent rack sections and any adjacent storage of liquids. Main aisles shall be a minimum of 8 feet (2438 mm) wide. 
5704.3.3.7 Pile or palletized storage. Solid pile and palletized storage in liquid warehouses shall be arranged so that piles are separated from each other by at least 4 feet (1219 mm). Aisles shall be provided and arranged so that no container or portable tank is more than 20 feet (6096 mm) from an aisle. Main aisles shall be a minimum of 8 feet (2438 mm) wide. 
5704.3.3.8 Limited combustible storage. Limited quantities of combustible commodities are allowed to be stored in liquid storage areas where the ordinary combustibles, other than those used for packaging the liquids, are separated from the liquids in storage by a minimum of 8 feet (2438 mm) horizontally, either by open aisles or by open racks, and where protection is provided in accordance with Chapter 9. 
5704.3.3.9 Idle combustible pallets. Storage of empty or idle combustible pallets inside an unprotected liquid storage area shall be limited to a maximum pile size of 2,500 square feet (232 m2) and to a maximum storage height of 6 feet (1829 mm). Storage of empty or idle combustible pallets inside a protected liquid storage area shall comply with NFPA 13. Pallet storage shall be separated from liquid storage by aisles that are at least 8 feet (2438 mm) wide. 
5704.3.3.10 Containers in piles. Containers in piles shall be stacked in such a manner as to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on container walls. Por­table tanks stored more than one tier high shall be designed to nest securely, without dunnage. Material­handling equipment shall be suitable to handle contain­ers and tanks safely at the upper tier level. 
5704.3.4 Quantity limits for storage. Liquid storage quantity limitations shall comply with Sections 5704.3 .4.1 through 5704.3.4.4. 
5704.3.4.1 Maximum allowable quantity per control area. For occupancies other than Group M wholesale and retail sales uses, indoor storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall not exceed the maximum allowable quantities per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 ( 1) and shall not exceed the additional limita­tions set forth in this section. 
For Group M occupancy wholesale and retail sales uses, indoor storage of flammable and combustible liq­uids shall not exceed the maximum allowable quanti­ties per control area indicated in Table 5704.3.4.1. 
Storage of hazardous production material flamma­ble and combustible liquids in Group H-5 occupancies shall be in accordance with Chapter 27. 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
5704.3.4.2 Occupancy quantity limits. The following limits for quantities of stored flammable or combustible liquids shall not be exceeded: 
1. 	
Group A occupancies: Quantities in Group A occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, main­tenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

2. 	
Group B occupancies: Quantities in drinking, dining, office and school uses within Group B occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, main­tenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

3. 	
Group E occupancies: Quantities in Group E occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, main­tenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

4. 	
Group F occupancies: Quantities in dining, office, and school uses within Group F occupan­cies shall not exceed that necessary for demon­stration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

5. 
Group I occupancies: Quantities in Group I occu­pancies shall not exceed that necessary for dem­onstration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

6. 	
Group M occupancies: Quantities in dining, office, and school uses within Group M occupan­cies shall not exceed that necessary for demon-



TABLE 5704.3.4.1 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA OF 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SALES OCCUPANCIES" 

TYPE OF LIQUID  MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA (gallons)  
Sprinkleredb in accordance with footnote densities and arrangements  Sprlnklered in accordance with Tables 5704.3.6.3(4) through 5704.3.6.3(8) and Table 5704.3.7.5.1  Nonsprinklered  
Class IA  60  60  30  
Class IB, IC, II and IliA  7,5ooc  15,000c  1,600  
Class IIIB  Unlimited  Unlimited  13,200  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 Llmin/m2• 
a. 	
Control areas shall be separated from each other by not less than a !-hour fire barrier. 

b. 
To be considered as sprinklered, a building shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system with a design providing minimum densities as follows: 


1. 	
For uncartoned commodities on shelves 6 feet or less in height where the ceiling height does not exceed 18 feet, quantities are those allowed with a minimum sprinkler design density of Ordinary Hazard Group 2. 

2. 	
For cartoned, palletized or racked commodities where storage is 4 feet 6 inches or less in height and where the ceiling height does not exceed 18 feet, quantities are those allowed with a minimum sprinkler design density of 0.21 gallon per minute per square foot over the most remote 1,500-square-foot area. 


c. 	Where wholesale and retail sales or storage areas exceed 50,000 square feet in area, the maximum allowable quantities are allowed to be increased by 2 percent for each 1,000 square feet of area in excess of 50,000 square feet, up to a maximum of 100 percent of the table amounts. A control area separation is not required. The cumulative amounts, including amounts attained by having an additional control area, shall not exceed 30,000 gallons. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
stration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). The maximum allowable quantities for storage in wholesale and retail sales areas shall be in accor­dance with Section 5704.3.4.1. 
7. 	
Group R occupancies: Quantities in Group R occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for maintenance purposes and operation of equip­ment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

8. 	
Group S occupancies: Quantities in dining and office uses within Group S occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, labora­tory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 



5704.3.4.3 Quantities exceeding limits for control areas. Quantities exceeding those allowed in control areas set forth in Section 5704.3.4.1 shall be in liquid storage rooms or liquid storage warehouses in accor­dance with Sections 5704.3.7 and 5704.3.8. 
5704.3.4.4 Liquids for maintenance and operation of equipment. In all occupancies, quantities of flammable and combustible liquids in excess of 10 gallons (38 L) used for maintenance purposes and the operation of equipment shall be stored in liquid storage cabinets in accordance with Section 5704.3.2. Quantities not exceeding 10 gallons (38 L) are allowed to be stored outside of a cabinet when in approved containers located in private garages or other approved locations. 
5704.3.5 Storage in control areas. Storage of flammable 
and combustible liquids in control areas shall be in accor­
dance with Sections 5704.3.5.1 through 5704.3.5.4. 
5704.3.5.1 Basement storage. Class I liquids shall be allowed to be stored in basements in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area for use-open systems in Table 5003.1.1(1), pro­vided that automatic suppression and other fire protec­tion are provided in accordance with Chapter 9. Class II and IliA liquids shall also be allowed to be stored in basements, provided that automatic suppression and other fire protection are provided in accordance with Chapter 9. 
5704.3.5.2 Storage pile heights. Containers having less than a 30-gallon (114 L) capacity which contain Class I or II liquids shall not be stacked more than 3 feet (914.4 mm) or two containers high, whichever is greater, unless stacked on fixed shelving or otherwise satisfactorily secured. Containers of Class I or II liquids having a capacity of 30 gallons (114 L) or more shall not be stored more than one container high. Containers shall be stored in an upright position. 
5704.3.5.3 Storage distance from ceilings and roofs. Piles of containers or portable tanks shall not be stored closer than 3 feet (914 mm) to the nearest beam, chord, girder or other obstruction, and shall be 3 feet (914 mm) below sprinkler deflectors or discharge orifices of water spray or other overhead fire protection system. 
5704.3.5.4 Combustible materials. In areas that are inaccessible to the public, Class I, II and IliA liquids shall not be stored in the same pile or rack section as ordinary combustible commodities unless such materi­als are packaged together as kits. 
5704.3.6 Wholesale and retail sales uses. Flammable and combustible liquids in Group M occupancy wholesale and retail sales uses shall be in accordance with Sections 5704.3.6.1 through 5704.3.6.5, or Sections 10.10.2, 12.3.8, 16.4.1 through 16.4.3, 16.5.1 through 16.5.2.12, Tables 16.5.2.1 through 16.5.2.12, and Figures 16.4.l(a) through 16.14.l(c) of NFPA 30. 
5704.3.6.1 Container type. Containers for Class I liq­uids shall be metal. 
Exception: In sprinklered buildings, an aggregate quantity of 120 gallons (454 L) of water-miscible Class IB and Class IC liquids is allowed in nonme­tallic containers, each having a capacity of 16 ounces (0.473 L) or less. 
5704.3.6.2 Container capacity. Containers for Class I liquids shall not exceed a capacity of 5 gallons (19 L). 
Exception: Metal containers not exceeding 55 gal­lons (208 L) are allowed to store up to 240 gallons 
TABLE 5704.3.6.3(1) 
MAXIMUM STORAGE HEIGHT IN CONTROL AREA 

TYPE OF LIQUID  NONSPRINKLERED AREA (feet)  SPRINKLERED AREA' (feet)  SPRINKLERED WITH IN-RACK PROTECTION"·" (feet)  
Flammable liquids: Class IA Class IB ClassIC  4 4 4  4 8 8  4 12 12  
Combustible liquids: Class II Class IliA Class IIIB  6 8 8  8 12 12  12 16 20  

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm. 
a 	In buildings protected by an automatic sprinkler system, the storage height for containers and portable tanks shall not exceed the maximum storage height permitted for the fire protection scheme set forth in NFPA 30 or the maximum storage height demonstrated in a full-scale fire test, whichever is greater. NFPA 30 criteria and fire test results for metallic containers and portable tanks shall not be applied to nonmetallic containers and portable tanks. 
b. In-rack protection shall be in accordance with Table 5704.3.6.3(5), 5704.3.6.3(6) or 5704.3.6.3(7). 
(908 L) of the maximum allowable quantity per con­trol area of Class IB and IC liquids in a control area. The building shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Table 5704.3.4.1. The containers shall be pro­vided with plastic caps without cap seals and shall be stored upright. Containers shall not be stacked or stored in racks and shall not be located in areas accessible to the public. 
5704.3.6.3 Fire protection and storage arrange­ments. Fire protection and container storage arrange­ments shall be in accordance with Table 5704.3.6.3(1) or the following: 
1. 	
Storage on shelves shall not exceed 6 feet (1829 mm) in height, and shelving shall be metal. 

2. 	
Storage on pallets or in piles greater than 4 feet 6 inches (1372 mm) in height, or where the ceiling exceeds 18 feet (5486 mm) in height, shall be protected in accordance with Table 5704.3.6.3(4), and the storage heights and arrangements shall be limited to those specified in Table 5704.3.6.3(2). 

3. 	
Storage on racks greater than 4 feet 6 inches (1372 mm) in height, or where the ceiling exceeds 18 feet (5486 mm) in height shall be pro­tected in accordance with Tables 5704.3.6.3(5), 5704.3.6.3(6), and 5704.3.6.3(7) as appropriate, 


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
and the storage heights and arrangements shall be limited to those specified in Table 5704.3.6.3(3). 
Combustible commodities shall not be stored above flammable and combustible liquids. 
5704.3.6.4 Warning for containers. All cans, contain­ers and vessels containing flammable liquids or flam­mable liquid compounds or mixtures offered for sale shall be provided with a warning indicator, painted or printed on the container and stating that the liquid is flammable, and shall be kept away from heat and an open flame. 
5704.3.6.5 Storage plan. When required by fire the code official, aisle and storage plans shall be submitted in accordance with Chapter 50. 

5704.3.7 Liquid storage rooms. Liquid storage rooms 
shall comply with Sections 5704.3.7.1 through 
5704.3.7.5.2. 
5704.3.7.1 General. Quantities of liquids exceeding those set forth in Section 5704.3.4.1 for storage in con­trol areas shall be stored in a liquid storage room com­plying with this section and constructed and separated as required by the California Building Code. 
5704.3.7.2 Quantities and arrangement of storage. The quantity limits and storage arrangements in liquid storage rooms shall be in accordance with Tables 5704.3.6.3(2) and 5704.3.6.3(3) and Sections 5704.3.7.2.1 through 5704.3.7.2.3. 

TABLE 5704.3.6.3(2) 
STORAGE ARRANGEMENTS FOR PALLETIZED OR SOLID-PILE STORAGE IN LIQUID STORAGE ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES 

CLASS  STORAGE LEVEL  MAXIMUM STORAGE HEIGHT  MAXIMUM QUANTITY PER PILE (gallons)  MAXIMUM QUANTITY PER ROOM" (gallons)  
Drums  Containers" {feet)  Portable tanks" (feet)  Containers  Portable tanks  Containers  Portable tanks  
lA  Ground floor Upper floors Basements  1 1 0  5 5 Not Allowed  Not Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed  3,000 2,000 Not Allowed  Not Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed  12,000 8,000 Not Allowed  Not Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed  
IB  Ground floor Upper floors Basements  1 1 0  6.5 6.5 Not Allowed  7 7 Not Allowed  5,000 3,000 Not Allowed  20,000 10,000 Not Allowed  15,000 12,000 Not Allowed  40,000 20,000 Not Allowed  
IC  Ground floorct Upper floors Basements  1 1 0  6.5" 6.5" Not Allowed  7 7 Not Allowed  5,000 3,000 Not Allowed  20,000 10,000 Not Allowed  15,000 12,000 Not Allowed  40,000 20,000 Not Allowed  
II  Ground floorct Upper floors Basements  3 3 1  10 10 5  14 14 7  10,000 10,000 7,500  40,000 40,000 20,000  25,000 25,000 7,500  80,000 80,000 20,000  
III  Ground floor Upper floors Basements  5 5 3  20 20 10  14 14 7  15,000 15,000 10,000  60,000 60,000 20,000  50,000 50,000 25,000  100,000 100,000 40,000  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
See Section 5704.3.8.1 for unlimited quantities in liquid storage warehouses. 

b. 	
In buildings protected by an automatic sprinkler system, the storage height for containers and portable tanks shall not exceed the maximum storage height permitted for the fire protection scheme set forth in NFPA 30 or the maximum storage height demonstrated in a full-scale fire test, whichever is greater. NFPA 30 criteria and fire test results for metallic containers and portable tanks shall not be applied to nonmetallic containers and portable tanks. 

c. 
These height limitations are allowed to be increased to 10 feet for containers having a capacity of 5 gallons or less. 

d. 	
For palletized storage of unsaturated polyester resins (UPR) in relieving-style metal containers with 50 percent or less by weight Class IC or II liquid and no Class IA or IB liquid, height and pile quantity limits shall be permitted to be 10 feet and 15,000 gallons, respectively, provided that such storage is protected by sprinklers in accordance with NFPA 30 and that the UPR storage area is not located in the same containment area or drainage path for other Class I or II liquids. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 5704.3.6.3(3) STORAGE ARRANGEMENTS FOR RACK STORAGE IN LIQUID STORAGE ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES 
CLASS  TYPE RACK  STORAGE LEVEL  MAXIMUM STORAGE HEIGHT" (feet)  MAXIMUM QUANTITY PER ROOM' (gallons)  
Containers  Containers  
Ground floor  25  7,500  
IA  Double row or Single row  Upper floors  15  4,500  
Basements  Not Allowed  Not Allowed  
IB IC  Double row or Single row  Ground floor Upper floors Basements  25 15 Not Allowed  15,000 9,000 Not Allowed  
Ground floor  25  24,000  
II  Double row or Single row  Upper floors  25  24,000  
Basements  15  9,000  
Multirow  Ground floor  40  48,000  
III  Double row  Upper floors  20  48,000  
Single row  Basements  20  24,000  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
See Section 5704.3.8.1 for unlimited quantities in liquid storage warehouses. 

b. 	
In buildings protected by an automatic sprinkler system, the storage height for containers and portable tanks shall not exceed the maximum storage height permitted for the fire protection scheme set forth in NFPA 30 or the maximum storage height demonstrated in a full-scale fire test, whichever is greater. NFPA 30 criteria and fire test results for metallic containers and portable tanks shall not be applied to nonmetallic containers and portable tanks. 


5704.3.7.2.1 Mixed storage. Where two or more classes of liquids are stored in a pile or rack section: 
1. 	
The quantity in that pile or rack shall not exceed the smallest of the maximum quanti­ties for the classes of liquids stored in accor­dance with Table 5704.3.6.3(2) or 5704.3.6.3(3); and 

2. 	
The height of storage in that pile or rack shall not exceed the smallest of the maximum heights for the classes of liquids stored in accordance with Table 5704.3.6.3(2) or 5704.3.6.3(3). 


5704.3.7.2.2 Separation and aisles. Piles shall be separated from each other by at least 4-foot (1219 mm) aisles. Aisles shall be provided so that all con­tainers are 20 feet (6096 mm) or less from an aisle. Where the storage of liquids is on racks, a minimum 4-foot-wide (1219 mm) aisle shall be provided between adjacent rows of racks and adjacent storage of liquids. Main aisles shall be a minimum of 8 feet (2438 mm) wide. 
Additional aisles shall be provided for access to doors, required windows and ventilation openings, standpipe connections, mechanical equipment and switches. Such aisles shall be at least 3 feet (914 mm) in width, unless greater widths are required for separation of piles or racks, in which case the greater width shall be provided. 
5704.3.7.2.3 Stabilizing and supports. Containers and piles shall be separated by pallets or dunnage to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress to container walls. Portable tanks stored over one tier shall be designed to nest securely without dunnage. 

Requirements for portable tank design shall be in accordance with Chapters 9 and 12 of NFPA 30. Shelving, racks, dunnage, scuffboards, floor overlay and similar installations shall be of noncombustible construction or of wood not less than a l-inch (25 mm) nominal thickness. Adequate material-handling equipment shall be available to handle tanks safely at upper tier levels. 
5704.3.7.3 Spill control and secondary containment. Liquid storage rooms shall be provided with spill con­trol and secondary containment in accordance with Section 5004.2. 
5704.3.7.4 Ventilation. Liquid storage rooms shall be ventilated in accordance with Section 5004.3. 
5704.3.7.5 Fire protection. Fire protection for liquid 
storage rooms shall comply with Sections 5704.3.7.5.1 
and 5704.3.7.5.2. 
5704.3.7.5.1 Fire-extinguishing systems. Liquid storage rooms shall be protected by automatic sprin­kler systems installed in accordance with Chapter 9 and Tables 5704.3.6.3(4) through 5704.3.6.3(7) and Table 5704.3.7.5.1. In-rack sprinklers shall also comply with NFPA 13. 
Automatic foam-water systems and automatic aqueous film-forming foam (AFFF) water sprinkler systems shall not be used except when approved. 
Protection criteria developed from fire modeling or full-scale fire testing conducted at an approved testing laboratory are allowed in lieu of the protec­tion as shown in Tables 5704.3.6.3(2) through 5704.3.6.3(7) and Table 5704.3.7.5.1 when approved. 
1\) TABLE 5704.3.6.3(4)
0 
..... 
(o) AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER PROTECTION FOR SOLID-PILE AND PALLETIZED STORAGE OF LIQUIDS IN METAL CONTAINERS AND PORTABLE TANKS• 
0 
>
r­
;; 
0 
::0 
z 
)> "Tl 
jj m 
0 0 0 

m 

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 L!min/m2• 
a. 
The design area contemplates the use of Class II standpipe systems. Where Class I standpipe systems are used, the area of application shall be increased by 30 percent without revising density. 

b. 
For storage heights above 4 feet or ceiling heights greater than 18 feet, an approved engineering design shall be provided in accordance with Section 104.7.2. "Tl 


r­
>
s: 

s: 


>
Ill 
r­
m 
>
z 
0 
0 
0 
s: 
Ill 
c 
~ 
ffi 
r­
m 
r­0 
c 
6 
(/) 
::N 
(o) 
0 
l> 
r­
:;; 
0 JJ 
z 
:; 
'11 
:0 
m 0 0 
0 
m 
TABLE 5704.3.6.3(5) 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR RACK STORAGE OF LIQUIDS IN METAL CONTAINERS OF 5-GALLON CAPACITY OR LESS WITH OR WITHOUT 
CARTONS ON CONVENTIONAL WOOD PALLETS• 
CLASS LIQUID  CEILING SPRINKLER DESIGN AND DEMAND  IN-RACK SPRINKLER ARRANGEMENT AND DEMAND  MINIMUM HOSE STREAM DEMAND (gpm)  MINIMUM DURATION SPRINKLER AND HOSE STREAM (hours)  
Density (gpm/ft2}  Area (square feet)  Maximum spacing  Racks up to 9 feet deep  Racks more than 9 feet to 12 feet deep  30 psi (standard orifice)  Number of sprinklers operating  
High-temperature sprinklers  Ordinary temperature sprinklers  14 psi (large orifice}  
I (maximum 25-foot height) Option I  0.40  3,000  5,000  80 ft2/head  1. Ordinary temperature, quick-response sprinklers, maxi­mum 8 feet 3 inches horizontal spacing 2. One line sprinklers above each level of storage 3. Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered vertical 4. Shields required where multilevel  1. Ordinary temperature, quick-response sprinklers, maximum 8 feet 3 inches horizontal spacing 2. One line sprinklers above each level of storage 3. Locate in transverse flue spaces, staggered vertical and within 20 inches of aisle 4. Shields required where multilevel  30psi (0.5-inch orifice)  1. Eight sprinklers if only one level 2. Six sprinklers each on two levels if only two levels 3. Six sprinklers each on top three levels, if three or more levels 4. Hydraulically most remote  750  2  
I (maximum 25-foot height) Option 2  0.55  2,000b  Not Applicable  100 ft2/ head  1. Ordinary temperature, quick-response sprinklers, maxi­mum 8 feet 3 inches horizontal spacing 2. See 2 above 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  1. Ordinary temperature, quick-response sprinklers, maximum 8 feet 3 inches horizontal spacing 2. See 2 above 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  14 psi (0.53-inch orifice)  See I through 4 above  500  2  
I and II (maximum 14­foot storage height) (maximum three tiers)  0.55'  2,000d  Not Applicable  100 ff/ head  Not Applicable None for maximum 6-foot-deep racks  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  500  2  
II (maximum 25­foot height)  0.30  3,000  5,000  100 ft2 / head  1. Ordinary temperature sprinklers 8 feet apart hori­zontally 2. One line sprinklers between levels at nearest I 0-foot vertical intervals 3. Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered vertical 4. Shields required where multilevel  I. Ordinary temperature sprinklers 8 feet apart horizontally 2. Two lines between levels at nearest 10-foot vertical intervals 3. Locate in transverse flue spaces, staggered vertical and within 20 inches of aisle 4. Shields required where multilevel  30 psi  Hydraulically most remote-six sprinklers at each level, up to a maximum of three levels  750  2  
III ( 40-foot height)  0.25  3,000  5,000  120 ft2/ head  Same as for Class II liquids  Same as for Class II liquids  30psi  Same as for Class II liquids  500  2  

For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 pound per square inch= 6.895 kPa, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 Llmin!m2• 
a. 
The design area contemplates the use of Class II standpipe systems. Where Class I standpipe systems are used, the area of application shall be increased by 30 percent without revising density. 

b. 
Using listed or approved extra-large orifices, high-temperature quick-response or standard element sprinklers under a maximum 30-foot ceiling with minimum 7.5-foot aisles. 

c. 
For friction lid cans and other metal containers equipped with plastic nozzles or caps, the density shall be increased to 0.65 gpm per square foot using listed or approved extra-large orifice, high-temperature quick -response sprinklers. 

d. 
Using listed or approved extra-large orifice, high-temperature quick-response or standard element sprinklers under a maximum 18-foot ceiling with minimum 7.5-foot aisles and metal containers. 


'11 
r­
l>
s::
s:: 
l> 
OJ 
r­
m 
l> 
z 
0 
0 
0
s:: 
OJ
c: 
~ 
ffi 
r­
m r­
5
c: 
6 
(/) 
!\) TABLE 5704.3.6.3(6) 
.... 
Co) AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS OR RACK STORAGE OF LIQUIDS IN METAL CONTAINERS GREATER THAN 5-GALLON CAPACITY• 
0 
)> 
r 
;; 
0 
:0 
z 
i> 
!! 
:0 
m 0 
0 
0 
m 
CLASS LIQUID  CEILING SPRINKLER DESIGN AND DEMAND  IN-RACK SPRINKLER ARRANGEMENT AND DEMAND  MINIMUM HOSE STREAM DEMAND (gpm)  MINIMUM DURATION SPRINKLER AND HOSE STREAM (hours)  
Density (gpm/ff)  (square feet) Area  Maximum spacing  On-side storage racks up to 9-foot-deep racks  On-end storage (on pallets) up to 9-foot-deep racks  Minimum nozzle pressure  Number of sprinklers operating 
High-temperature sprinklers  Ordinary temperature sprinklers  
IA (maximum 25-foot height)  0.60  3,000  5,000  80 fe!head  1. Ordinary temperature sprinklers 8 feet apart hor­izontally 2. One line sprinklers above each tier of storage 3. Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered vertical 4. Shields required where multilevel  1. Ordinary temperature sprinklers 8 feet apart horizontally 2. One line sprinklers above each tier of storage 3. Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered ver­tical 4. Shields required where multilevel  30 psi  Hydraulically most remote-six sprinklers at each level  1,000  2  
IB, IC and II (maximum 25-foot height)  0.60  3,000  5,000  100ft%ead  1. See 1 above 2. One line sprinklers every three tiers of storage 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  1. See l above 2. See 2 above 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  30 psi  Hydraulically most remote-six sprinklers at each level  750  2  
III (maximum 40-foot height)  0.25  3,000  5,000  120ft%ead  1. See 1 above 2. One line sprinklers every sixth level (maximum) 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  1. See 1 above 2. One line sprinklers every third level (maximum) 3. See 3 above 4. See 4 above  15 psi  Hydraulically most remote-six sprinklers at each level  500  1  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 pound per square inch= 6.895 kPa, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 L/min/m2• 
a. The design assumes the use of Class II standpipe systems. Where a Class I standpipe system is used, the area of application shall be increased by 30 percent without revising density. 
'TI 
~ 
:s:
:s: 
)> [ll 
r 
m )> 
z 
0 
0 
0
:s: 
[ll 
c 
~ 
[ll 
r 
m r 
B 
c 
6 
(/) 
.,
TABLE 5704.3.6.3(7) 
AUTOMATIC AFFF WATER PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR RACK STORAGE OF LIQUIDS IN METAL CONTAINERS GREATER THAN 5-GALLON CAPACITY"·b r 
)> 
s
CEILING SPRINKLER DESIGN 

s
IN-RACK SPRINKLER ARRANGEMENT AND DEMAN De
AND DEMAND 

)> 
m
DURATION 
DURATION
Area 

r
AFFF 
WATER 
m
Minimum

CLASS LIQUID 
(square feet) 
Number of 
Hose stream 

SUPPLY 
SUPPLY 
)>
Density 

On-end storage of drums 
nozzle 
demand•
sprinklers 

z
(minimum} 
(hours)
High-
Ordinary
(gpm/ft") 

on pallets, up to 25 feet 
pressure 

c
operating 
(gpm)
temperature 
temperature 
(psi) 

0
sprinklers 
sprinklers 

0 
IA, IB, 
0.30 
1,500 
2,500

IC and II 
1. Ordinary temperature sprinkler up to 10 feet apart horizontally  s Ill c: en  
2. One line sprinklers above each  Three  ::!  
level of storage  30  sprinklers per  500  15  2  Ill r  
3. Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered vertically 4. Shields required for multilevel  level  m r B c: a  

en 
For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2 , 1 pound per square inch= 6.895 kPa, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 Llminfm2• 
a. 
System shall be a closed-head wet system with approved devices for proportioning aqueous film-forming foam. 

b. 
Except as modified herein, in-rack sprinklers shall be installed in accordance with NFP A 13. 

c. 
The height of storage shall not exceed 25 feet. 

d. 
Hose stream demand includes 11/ 2-inch inside hand hose, when required. 


TABLE 5704.3.6.3(8) 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS I LIQUID STORAGE IN METAL CONTAINERS OF 1-GALLON CAPACITY OR LESS 
WITH UNCARTONED OR CASE-CUT SHELF DISPLAY UP TO 6.5 FEET, AND PALLETIZED STORAGE ABOVE IN A DOUBLE-ROW RACK ARRAY" 

MINIMUMCEILING SPRINKLER DESIGN AND DEMAND IN-RACK SPRINKLER ARRANGEMENT AND DEMAND MINIMUM DURATIONHOSEArea 
SPRINKLERS Density 
STORAGE STREAM(square feet) Number of sprinklersMaximum Racks 9to Minimum nozzle AND HOSE HEIGHT Racks up to 9 feet deep DEMAND12 feet pressure operating(gpm/ft") spacing STREAMOrdinaryHigh (gpm} (hours)temperature temperature 
1\) 0.... (o)  Maximum 20-foot storage height  0.60  2,000b  Not Applicable  100 ft%ead  
0 )> r  
~  
::tl  

1. 
Ordinary temperature, quick-response sprinklers, maximum 8 feet 3 inches horizontal spacing 

2. 
One line of sprinklers at the 6-foot level and the 11.5­foot level of storage 

3. 
Locate in longitudinal flue space, staggered vertical 

4. 
Shields required where multilevel 


30 psi  1. Six sprinklers each  
Not Applicable  (standard orifice) or 14 psi (large  on two levels 2. Hydraulically most  500  2  
orifice)  remote 12 sprinklers  

z 
)> 
For SI: I inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 pound per square inch= 6.895 kPa, 1 gallon= 3.785 L, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75
., 
L/rnin/m2•
:6 
m a. This table shall not apply to racks with solid shelves. 0 
b. Using extra-large orifice sprinklers under a ceiling 30 feet or less in height. Minimum aisle width is 7.5 feet. 
0 
c 
m 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 

TABLE 5704.3.7.5.1 
AUTOMATIC AFFF-WATER PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLID-PILE AND 
PALLETIZED STORAGE OF LIQUIDS IN METAL CONTAINERS OF 5-GALLON CAPACITY OR LESS•·b 

CEILING SPRINKLER DESIGN AND DEMAND 
DURATION 
DURATION
STORAGE 
HOSE 
AFFF 
WATER
PACKAGE CLASS 
HEIGHT 
DEMAND
Temperature 

Maximum 
Orifice size 
Density 
Area 
SUPPLY 
SUPPLY
LIQUIDTYPE 
(feet) 
(gpm)"

spacing 
(inch)
(gpm/ft2) 
(square feet) 
rating 
(minimum) 
(hours) 
IB, IC, II 

wo feJ
286°F 
2
2,000 
0.531 
11 
500 
15
Cartoned 
0.40 

head
and III 
0.5 or
IB, IC, II 

wo feJ
286°F 
12 
15 
2
2,000 
500

Uncartoned 
0.30 
0.531
and III 

head 
For SI: 1 inch= 25.4 mm, 1 foot= 304.8 mm, I square foot= 0.0929 m2, I gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, I gallon per minute per square foot= 40.75 Llminl m2, °C, = [(°F)-32]/J.8. 
a. 
System shall be a closed-head wet system with approved devices for proportioning aqueous film-forming foam. 

b. 
Maximum ceiling height of 30 feet. 

c. 
Hose stream demand includes 11/ 2-inch inside hand hose, when required. 


5704.3.7.5.2 Portable fire extinguishers. A mini­mum of one approved portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 and having a rating of not less than 20-B shall be located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) or more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from any Class I or II liquid storage area located outside of a liquid storage room. 
A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher having a rating of not less than 20-B shall be located outside of, but not more than 10 feet (3048 mm) from, the door opening into a liquid storage room. 
5704.3.8 Liquid storage warehouses. Buildings used for storage of flammable or combustible liquids in quantities exceeding those set forth in Section 5704.3.4 for control areas and Section 5704.3.7 for liquid storage rooms shall comply with Sections 5704.3.8.1 through 5704.3.8.5 and shall be constructed and separated as required by the Cali­fornia Building Code. 
5704.3.8.1 Quantities and storage arrangement. The total quantities of liquids in a liquid storage warehouse shall not be limited. The arrangement of storage shall be in accordance with Table 5704.3.6.3(2) or 5704.3.6.3(3). 
5704.3.8.1.1 Mixed storage. Mixed storage shall be in accordance with Section 5704.3.7.2.1. 
5704.3.8.1.2 Separation and aisles. Separation and aisles shall be in accordance with Section 5704.3.7.2.2. 
5704.3.8.2 Spill control and secondary containment. Liquid storage warehouses shall be provided with spill control and secondary containment as set forth in Sec­tion 5004.2. 
5704.3.8.3 Ventilation. Liquid storage warehouses storing containers greater than 5 gallons (19 L) in capacity shall be ventilated at a rate of not less than 
0.25 cfm per square foot (0.075 m3/s · m2) of floor area over the storage area. 
5704.3.8.4 Fire-extinguishing systems. Liquid storage warehouses shall be protected by automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with Chapter 9 and Tables 5704.3.6.3(4) through 5704.3.6.3(7) and Table 5704.3.7.5.1, or Sections 16.4.1 through 16.4.3, 16.5.1 through 16.5.2.12, and Tables 16.5.2.1 through 
16.5.2.12 and Figures 16.4.1(a) through 16.4.l(c) of NFPA 30. In-rack sprinklers shall also comply with NFPA13. 
Automatic foam-water systems and automatic AFFF water sprinkler systems shall not be used except where approved. 
Protection criteria developed from fire modeling or full-scale fire testing conducted at an approved testing laboratory are allowed in lieu of the protection as shown in Tables 5704.3.6.3(2) through 5704.3.6.3(7) and Table 5704.3.7.5.1 where approved. 
5704.3.8.5 Warehouse hose lines. In liquid storage warehouses, either 11/ 2-inch (38 mm) lined or l-inch (25 mm) hard rubber hand hose lines shall be provided in sufficient number to reach all liquid storage areas and shall be in accordance with Section 903 or Section 

905. 5704.4 Outdoor storage of containers and portable tanks. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids in closed con­tainers and portable tanks outside of buildings shall be in accordance with Section 5703 and Sections 5704.4.1 through 
5704.4.8. Capacity limits for containers and portable tanks shall be in accordance with Section 5704.3. 
5704.4.1 Plans. Storage shall be in accordance with approved plans. 
5704.4.2 Location on property. Outdoor storage of liq­uids in containers and portable tanks shall be in accor­dance with Table 5704.4.2. Storage of liquids near buildings located on the same lot shall be in accordance with this section. 
5704.4.2.1 Mixed liquid piles. Where two or more classes of liquids are stored in a single pile, the quantity in the pile shall not exceed the smallest of maximum quantities for the classes of material stored. 
5704.4.2.2 Access. Storage of containers or portable tanks shall be provided with fire apparatus access roads in accordance with Chapter 5. 
5704.4.2.3 Security. The storage area shall be pro­tected against tampering or trespassers where necessary 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 5704.4.2 OUTDOOR LIQUID STORAGE IN CONTAINERS AND PORTABLE TANKS 

CLASS OF LIQUID  CONTAINER STORAGE­MAXIMUM PER PILE Quantity'· • Height (gallons) (feet)  PORTABLE TANK STORAGE­MAXIMUM PER PILE Quantity'· • Height (gallons) (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN PILES OR RACKS (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE TO LOT LINE OF PROPERTY THAT CAN BE BUILT UPON'·• (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE TO PUBLIC STREET, PUBLIC ALLEY OR PUBLIC WAY• (feet)  
IA  1,100  10  2,200  7  5  50  10  
IB  2,200  12  4,400  14  5  50  10  
IC  4,400  12  8,800  14  5  50  10  
II  8,800  12  17,600  14  5  25  5  
III  22,000  18  44,000  14  5  10  5  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon 3.785 L. 
a. 
For mixed class storage, see Section 5704.4.2. 

b. 	
For storage in racks, the quantity limits per pile do not apply, but the rack a!Tangement shall be limited to a maximum of 50 feet in length and two rows or 9 feet in depth. 

c. 
Ifprotection by a public fire department or private fire brigade capable of providing cooling water streams is not available, the distance shall be doubled. 

d. 	
When the total quantity stored does not exceed 50 percent of the maximum allowed per pile, the distances are allowed to be reduced 50 percent, but not less than 3 feet. 


and shall be kept free from weeds, debris and other combustible materials not necessary to the storage. 
5704.4.2.4 Storage adjacent to buildings. A maxi­mum of 1,100 gallons (4163 L) of liquids stored in closed containers and portable tanks is allowed adja­cent to a building located on the same premises and under the same management, provided that: 
1. 	
The building does not exceed one story in height. Such building shall be of fire-resistance-rated construction with noncombustible exterior sur­faces or noncombustible construction and shall be used principally for the storage of liquids; or 

2. 	
The exterior building wall adjacent to the storage area shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours, having no openings to above-grade areas within 10 feet (3048 mm) horizontally of such storage and no openings to below-grade areas within 50 feet (15 240 mm) horizontally of such storage. 



The quantity of liquids stored adjacent to a building protected in accordance with Item 2 is allowed to exceed 1,100 gallons (4163 L), provided that the maxi­mum quantity per pile does not exceed 1,100 gallons (4163 L) and each pile is separated by a 10-foot-mini­mum (3048 mm) clear space along the common wall. 
Where the quantity stored exceeds 1,100 gallons (4163 L) adjacent to a building complying with Item 1, or the provisions of Item 1 cannot be met, a minimum distance in accordance with Table 5704.4.2, column 7 ("Minimum Distance to Lot Line of Property That Can Be Built Upon") shall be maintained between buildings and the nearest container or portable tank. 
5704.4.3 Spill control and secondary containment. Stor­age areas shall be provided with spill control and second­ary containment in accordance with Section 5703.4. 
Exception: Containers stored on approved containment pallets in accordance with Section 5004.2.3 and con­tainers stored in cabinets and lockers with integral spill containment. 
5704.4.4 Security. Storage areas shall be protected against tampering or trespassers by fencing or other approved con­trol measures. 
5704.4.5 Protection from vehicles. Guard posts or other means shall be provided to protect exterior storage tanks from vehicular damage. When guard posts are installed, the posts shall be installed in accordance with Section 312. 
5704.4.6 Clearance from combustibles. The storage area shall be kept free from weeds, debris and combustible materials not necessary to the storage. The area surround­ing an exterior storage area shall be kept clear of such materials for a minimum distance of 15 feet (4572 mm). 
5704.4.7 Weather protection. Weather protection for outdoor storage shall be in accordance with Section 5004.13. 
5704.4.8 Empty containers and tank storage. The stor­age of empty tanks and containers previously used for the storage of flammable or combustible liquids, unless free from explosive vapors, shall be stored as required for filled containers and tanks. Tanks and containers when emptied shall have the covers or plugs immediately replaced in openings. 
SECTION 5705 
DISPENSING, USE, MIXING AND HANDLING 

5705.1 Scope. Dispensing, use, mixing and handling of flam­mable liquids shall be in accordance with Section 5703 and this section. Tank vehicle and tank car loading and unloading and other special operations shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 5706. 
Exception: Containers of organic coatings having no fire point and which are opened for pigmentation are not required to comply with this section. 
5705.2 Liquid transfer. Liquid transfer equipment and methods for transfer of Class I, II and IliA liquids shall be approved and be in accordance with Sections 5705.2.1 through 5705.2.6. 
5705.2.1 Pumps. Positive-displacement pumps shall be provided with pressure relief discharging back to the tank, pump suction or other approved location, or shall be pro­vided with interlocks to prevent over-pressure. 
5705.2.2 Pressured systems. Where gases are introduced to provide for transfer of Class I liquids, or Class II and III liquids transferred at temperatures at or above their flash points by pressure, only inert gases shall be used. Con­trols, including pressure relief devices, shall be provided to limit the pressure so that the maximum working pres­sure of tanks, containers and piping systems cannot be exceeded. Where devices operating through pressure within a tank or container are used, the tank or container shall be a pressure vessel approved for the intended use. Air or oxygen shall not be used for pressurization. 
Exception: Air transfer of Class II and III liquids at 
temperatures below their flash points. 5705.2.3 Piping, hoses and valves. Piping, hoses and valves used in liquid transfer operations shall be approved or listed for the intended use. 
5705.2.4 Class I, II and III liquids. Class I liquids or when heated to or above their flash points, Class II and Class III liquids shall be transferred by one of the follow­ing methods: 
1. 	
From safety cans complying with UL 30. 

2. 	
Through an approved closed piping system. 

3. 	
From containers or tanks by an approved pump tak­ing suction through an opening in the top of the con­tainer or tank. 

4. 	
For Class IB, IC, II and III liquids, from containers or tanks by gravity through an approved self-closing or automatic-closing valve when the container or tank and dispensing operations are provided with spill control and secondary containment in accor­dance with Section 5703.4. Class IA liquids shall not be dispensed by gravity from tanks. 

5. 	
Approved engineered liquid transfer systems. 


Exception: Liquids in original shipping containers not 
exceeding a 5.3-gallon (20 L) capacity. 5705.2.5 Manual container filling operations. Class I liquids or Class II and Class III liquids that are heated up to or above their flash points shall not be transferred into containers unless the nozzle and containers are electrically interconnected. Acceptable methods of electrical intercon­nection include: 
1. 	Metallic floor plates on which containers stand while filling, when such floor plates are electrically connected to the fill stem; or 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
2. 	Where the fill stem is bonded to the container during filling by means of a bond wire. 
5705.2.6 Automatic container-filling operations for Class I liquids. Container-filling operations for Class I liquids involving conveyor belts or other automatic-feed­ing operations shall be designed to prevent static accumu­lations. 

5705.3 Use, dispensing and mixing inside of buildings. Indoor use, dispensing and mixing of flammable and combus­tible liquids shall be in accordance with Section 5705.2 and Sections 5705.3.1 through 5705.3.5.3. 
5705.3.1 Closure of mixing or blending vessels. Vessels used for mixing or blending of Class I liquids and Class II or III liquids heated up to or above their flash points shall be provided with self-closing, tight-fitting, noncombusti­ble lids that will control a fire within such vessel. 
Exception: Where such devices are impractical, approved automatic or manually controlled fire-extin­guishing devices shall be provided. 
5705.3.2 Bonding of vessels. Where differences of poten­tial could be created, vessels containing Class I liquids or liquids handled at or above their flash points shall be elec­trically connected by bond wires, ground cables, piping or similar means to a static grounding system to maintain equipment at the same electrical potential to prevent sparking. 
5705.3.3 Heating, lighting and cooking appliances. Heating, lighting and cooking appliances which utilize Class I liquids shall not be operated within a building or structure. 
Exception: Operation in single-family dwellings. 5705.3.4 Location of processing vessels. Processing ves­sels shall be located with respect to distances to lot lines of adjoining property which can be built on, in accordance with Tables 5705.3.4(1) and 5705.3.4(2). 
Exception: Where the exterior wall facing the adjoin­ing lot line is a blank wall having a fire-resistance rat­ing of not less than 4 hours, the fire code official is authorized to modify the distances. The distance shall not be less than that set forth in the California Building Code, and when Class lA or unstable liquids are involved, explosion control shall be provided in accor­dance with Section 911. 

5705.3.5 Quantity limits for use. Liquid use quantity lim­itations shall comply with Sections 5705.3.5.1 through 5705.3.5.3. 
TABLE 5705.3.4(1) 
SEPARATION OF PROCESSING VESSELS FROM LOT LINES 

LOCATION• 

PROCESSING VESSELS WITH EMERGENCY RELIEF VENTING 
Stable liquids 
Unstable liquids 
Not in excess of 2.5 psig 

Table 5705.3.4(2) 
2.5 times Table 5705.3.4(2) 
Over 2.5 psig 

1.5 times Table 5705.3.4(2) 
4 times Table 5705.3.4(2) 

For SI: 1 pound per square inch gauge = 6.895 kPa. 
a. 	Where protection of exposures by a public fire department or private fire brigade capable of providing cooling water streams on stmctures is not provided, distances shall be doubled. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE 5705.3.4(2) REFERENCE TABLE FOR USE WITH TABLE 5705.3.4(1) 
TANK CAPACITY (gallons)  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM LOT LINE OF A LOT WHICH IS OR CAN BE BUlLT UPON, INCLUDING THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF A PUBLIC WAY (feet)  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM NEAREST SIDE OF ANY PUBLIC WAY OR FROM NEAREST IMPORTANT BUILDING ON THE SAME PROPERTY (feet)  
275 or less  5  5  
276 to 750  10  5  
751 to 12,000  15  5  
12,001 to 30,000  20  5  
30,001 to 50,000  30  10  
50,001 to 100,000  50  15  
100,001 to 500,000  80  25  
500,001 to 1,000,000  100  35  
1,000,001 to 2,000,000  135  45  
2,000,001 to 3,000,000  165  55  
3,000,001 or more  175  60  

For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm, I gallon= 3.785 L. 
5705.3.5.1 Maximum allowable quantity per control area. Indoor use, dispensing and mixing of flammable and combustible liquids shall not exceed the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) and shall not exceed the additional limita­tions set forth in Section 5705.3.5. 
Exception: Cleaning with Class I, II and IliA liq­uids shall be in accordance with Section 5705.3.6. 
Use of hazardous production material flammable and combustible liquids in Group H-5 occupancies shall be in accordance with Chapter 27. 
5705.3.5.2 Occupancy quantity limits. The following limits for quantities of flammable and combustible liq­uids used, dispensed or mixed based on occupancy classification shall not be exceeded: 
Exception: Cleaning with Class I, II, or IliA liquids shall be in accordance with Section 5705.3.6. 
1. 	
Group A occupancies: Quantities in Group A occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equip­ment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

2. 	
Group B occupancies: Quantities in drinking, dining, office and school uses within Group B occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equip­ment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

3. 	
Group E occupancies: Quantities in Group E occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, treatment, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equip­


ment and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 
4. 
Group F occupancies: Quantities in dining, office and school uses within Group F occu­pancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

5. 
Group I occupancies: Quantities in Group I occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, laboratory work, mainte­nance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

6. 	
Group M occupancies: Quantities in dining, office and school uses within Group M occu­pancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

7. 
Group R occupancies: Quantities in Group R occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for maintenance purposes and operation of equipment, and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

8. 	
GroupS occupancies: Quantities in dining and office uses within Group S occupancies shall not exceed that necessary for demonstration, laboratory work, maintenance purposes and operation of equipment and shall not exceed quantities set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 



5705.3.5.3 Quantities exceeding limits for control areas. Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Sections 5705.3.5.1 and 5705.3.5.2 shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
For open systems, indoor use, dispensing and mixing of flammable and combustible liquids shall be within a room or building complying with the California Building Code and Sections 5705.3.7.1 through 5705.3.7.5. 

2. 	
For closed systems, indoor use, dispensing and mixing of flammable and combustible liquids shall be within a room or building complying with the California Building Code and Sections 5705.3.7 through 5705.3.7.4 and Section 5705.3.7.6. 


5705.3.6 Cleaning with flammable and combustible liq­uids. Cleaning with Class I, II and IliA liquids shall be in accordance with Sections 5705.3.6.1 through 5705.3.6.2.7. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Dry cleaning shall be in accordance with Chapter 
21. 
2. 	Spray-nozzle cleaning shall be in accordance with Section 2403.3.5. 
5705.3.6.1 Cleaning operations. Class IA liquids shall not be used for cleaning. Cleaning with Class IB, IC or II liquids shall be conducted as follows: 
1. 	
In a room or building in accordance with Section 5705.3.7; or 

2. 	
In a parts cleaner listed, labeled and approved for the purpose m accordance with Section 5705.3.6.2. 


Exception: Materials used in commercial and industrial process-related cleaning operations in accordance with other provisions of this code and not involving facilities maintenance cleaning opera­tions. 
5705.3.6.2 Listed and approved machines. Parts cleaning and degreasing conducted in listed and approved machines in accordance with Section 5705.3.6.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5705.3.6.2.1 through 5705.3.6.2.7. 
5705.3.6.2.1 Solvents. Solvents shall be classified and shall be compatible with the machines within which they are used. 
5705.3.6.2.2 Machine capacities. The quantity of solvent shall not exceed the listed design capacity of the machine for the solvent being used with the machine. 
5705.3.6.2.3 Solvent quantity limits. Solvent quan­tities shall be limited as follows: 
1. 	
Machines without remote solvent reservoirs shall be limited to quantities set forth in Sec­tion 5705.3.5. 

2. 	
Machines with remote solvent reservoirs using Class I liquids shall be limited to quantities set forth in Section 5705.3.5. 


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
3. 	
Machines with remote solvent reservoirs using Class II liquids shall be limited to 35 gallons (132 L) per machine. The total quantities shall not exceed an aggregate of 240 gallons (908 L) per control area in buildings not equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprin­kler system and an aggregate of 480 gallons ( 1817 L) per control area in buildings equipped throughout with an approved auto­matic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 

4. 
Machines with remote solvent reservoirs using Class IliA liquids shall be limited to 80 gal­lons (303 L) per machine. 


5705.3.6.2.4 Immersion soaking of parts. Work areas of machines with remote solvent reservoirs shall not be used for immersion soaking of parts. 
5705.3.6.2.5 Separation. Multiple machines shall be separated from each other by a distance of not less than 30 feet (9144 mm) or by a fire barrier with a minimum 1-hour fire-resistance rating. 
5705.3.6.2.6 Ventilation. Machines shall be located in areas adequately ventilated to prevent accumula­tion of vapors. 
5705.3.6.2.7 Installation. Machines shall be installed in accordance with their listings. 

5705.3.7 Rooms or buildings for quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. Where required by Section 5705.3.5.3 or 5705.3.6.1, rooms or buildings used for the use, dispensing or mixing of flammable and combustible liquids in quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area shall be in accordance with Sections 5705.3.7.1 through 5705.3.7.6.3. 
5705.3.7.1 Construction, location and fire protec­tion. Rooms or buildings classified in accordance with the California Building Code as Group H-2 or H-3 occupancies based on use, dispensing or mixing of flammable or combustible liquids shall be constructed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5705.3.7.2 Basements. In rooms or buildings classified in accordance with the California Building Code as Group H-2 or H-3, dispensing or mixing of flammable or combustible liquids shall not be conducted in base­ments. 
5705.3.7.3 Fire protection. Rooms or buildings classi­fied in accordance with the California Building Code as Group H-2 or H-3 occupancies shall be equipped with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system in accordance with Chapter 9. 
5705.3.7.4 Doors. Interior doors to rooms or portions of such buildings shall be self-closing fire doors in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5705.3.7.5 Open systems. Use, dispensing and mixing of flammable and combustible liquids in open systems 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
shall be in accordance with Sections 5705.3.7.5.1 through 5705.3.7.5.3. 
5705.3.7.5.1 Ventilation. Continuous mechanical ventilation shall be provided at a rate of not less than 1 cfm per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s · m2)] of floor area over the design area. Provisions shall be made for introduction of makeup air in such a manner to include all floor areas or pits where vapors can col­lect. Local or spot ventilation shall be provided when needed to prevent the accumulation of hazard­ous vapors. Ventilation system design shall comply with the California Building Code and California Mechanical Code. 
Exception: Where natural ventilation can be shown to be effective for the materials used, dis­pensed or mixed. 
5705.3.7.5.2 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be provided in accordance with Section 911. 
5705.3.7.5.3 Spill control and secondary contain­ment. Spill control shall be provided in accordance with Section 5703.4 where Class I, II or IliA liquids are dispensed into containers exceeding a 1.3-gallon (5 L) capacity or mixed or used in open containers or systems exceeding a 5.3-gallon (20 L) capacity. Spill control and secondary containment shall be provided in accordance with Section 5703.4 when the capacity of an individual container exceeds 55 gallons (208 L) or the aggregate capacity of multiple containers or tanks exceeds 100 gallons (378.5 L). 

5705.3.7.6 Closed systems. Use or mixing of flamma­ble or combustible liquids in closed systems shall be in accordance with Sections 5705.3.7.6.1 through 5705.3.7.6.3. 
5705.3.7.6.1 Ventilation. Closed systems designed to be opened as part of normal operations shall be provided with ventilation in accordance with Sec­tion 5705.3.7.5.1. 
5705.3.7.6.2 Explosion control. Explosion control shall be provided when an explosive environment can occur as a result of the mixing or use process. Explosion control shall be designed in accordance with Section 911. 
Exception: When process vessels are designed to contain fully the worst-case explosion anticipated within the vessel under process conditions con­sidering the most likely failure. 
5705.3.7.6.3 Spill control and secondary contain­ment. Spill control shall be provided in accordance with Section 5703.4 when flammable or combusti­ble liquids are dispensed into containers exceeding a 1.3-gallon (5 L) capacity or mixed or used in open containers or systems exceeding a 5.3-gallon (20 L) capacity. Spill control and secondary containment shall be provided in accordance with Section 5703.4 when the capacity of an individual container exceeds 55 gallons (208 L) or the aggregate capacity 

of multiple containers or tanks exceeds 1,000 gal­lons (3785 L). 
5705.3.8 Use, dispensing and handling outside of build­
ings. Outside use, dispensing and handling shall be in 
accordance with Sections 5705.3.8.1 through 5705.3.8.4. 
Dispensing of liquids into motor vehicle fuel tanks at motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be in accordance with Chapter 23. 
5705.3.8.1 Spill control. Outside use, dispensing and handling areas shall be provided with spill control as set forth in Section 5703.4. 
5705.3.8.2 Location on property. Dispensing activi­ties which exceed the quantities set forth in Table 5705.3.8.2 shall not be conducted within 15 feet (4572 mm) of buildings or combustible materials or within 25 feet (7620 mm) of building openings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys or public ways. Dispensing activi­ties that exceed the quantities set forth in Table 5705.3.8.2 shall not be conducted within 15 feet (4572 mm) of storage of Class I, II or III liquids unless such liquids are stored in tanks which are listed and labeled as 2-hour protected tank assemblies in accordance with UL 2085. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The requirements shall not apply to areas where only the following are dispensed: Class III liquids; liquids that are heavier than water; water-miscible liquids; and liquids with vis­cosities greater than 10,000 centipoise (cp) (10 Pa • s). 

2. 	
Flammable and combustible liquid dispensing in refineries, chemical plants, process facili­ties, gas and crude oil production facilities and oil-blending and packaging facilities, termi­nals and bulk plants. 



TABLE 5705.3.8.2 
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITIES FOR 
DISPENSING OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE 

LIQUIDS IN OUTDOOR CONTROL AREAS"· b 

CLASS OF LIQUID  QUANTITY (gallons)  
Flammable Class IA Class IB ClassIC Combination Class IA, IB and IC  10 15 20 30c  
Combustible Class II Class IliA Class IIIB  30 80 3,300  

For SI: 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 
For definition of "Outdoor Control Area," see Section 5002.1. 

b. 	
The fire code official is authorized to impose special conditions regarding locations, types of containers, dispensing units, fire control measures and other factors involving fire safety. 

c. 	
Containing not more than the maximum allowable quantity per control area of each individual class. 


5705.3.8.3 Location of processing vessels. Processing vessels shall be located with respect to distances to lot lines which can be built on in accordance with Table 5705.3.4(1). 
Exception: In refineries and distilleries. 
5705.3.8.4 Weather protection. Weather protection for outdoor use shall be in accordance with Section 5005.3.9. 

5705.4 Solvent distillation units. Solvent distillation units shall comply with Sections 5705.4.1 through 5705.4.9. 
5705.4.1 Unit with a capacity of 60 gallons or less. Sol­vent distillation units used to recycle Class I, II or IliA liq­uids having a distillation chamber capacity of 60 gallons (227 L) or less shall be listed, labeled and installed in accordance with Section 5705.4 and UL 2208. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Solvent distillation units used in continuous through-put industrial processes where the source of heat is remotely supplied using steam, hot water, oil or other heat transfer fluids, the temper­ature of which is below the auto-ignition point of the solvent. 

2. 	
Approved research, testing and experimental pro­cesses. 


5705.4.2 Units with a capacity exceeding 60 gallons. Solvent distillation units used to recycle Class I, II or IliA liquids, having a distillation chamber capacity exceeding 60 gallons (227 L) shall be used in locations that comply with the use and mixing requirements of Section 5705 and other applicable provisions in this chapter. 
5705.4.3 Prohibited processing. Class I, II and IliA liq­uids also classified as unstable (reactive) shall not be pro­cessed in solvent distillation units. 
Exception: Appliances listed for the distillation of unstable (reactive) solvents. 
5705.4.4 Labeling. A permanent label shall be affixed to the unit by the manufacturer. The label shall indicate the capacity of the distillation chamber, and the distance the unit shall be placed away from sources of ignition. The label shall indicate the products for which the unit has been listed for use or refer to the instruction manual for a list of the products. 
5705.4.5 Manufacturer's instruction manual. An instruction manual shall be provided. The manual shall be readily available for the user and the fire code official. The manual shall include installation, use and servicing instructions. It shall identify the liquids for which the unit has been listed for distillation purposes along with each liquid's flash point and auto-ignition temperature. For units with adjustable controls, the manual shall include directions for setting the heater temperature for each liquid to be instilled. 
5705.4.6 Location. Solvent distillation units shall be used in locations in accordance with the listing. Solvent distilla­tion units shall not be used in basements. 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 

5705.4.7 Storage of liquids. Distilled liquids and liquids awaiting distillation shall be stored in accordance with Section 5704. 
5705.4.8 Storage of residues. Hazardous residue from the distillation process shall be stored in accordance with Sec­tion 5704 and Chapter 50. 
5705.4.9 Portable fire extinguishers. Approved portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with Section 906. At least one portable fire extinguisher having a rating of not less than 40-B shall be located not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) or more than 30 feet (9144 mm) from any solvent distillation unit. 
5705.5 Alcohol-based hand rubs classified as Class I or II liquids. The use of wall-mounted dispensers containing alco­hol-based hand rubs classified as Class I or II liquids shall be in accordance with all of the following: 
1. 	
The maximum capacity of each dispenser shall be 68 ounces (2 L). 

2. 	
The minimum separation between dispensers shall be 48 inches (1219 mm). 

3. 	
The dispensers shall not be installed directly adjacent to, directly above or below an electrical receptacle, switch, appliance, device or other ignition source. The wall space between the dispenser and the floor shall remain clear and unobstructed. 

4. 	
Dispensers shall be mounted so that the bottom of the dispenser is a minimum of 42 inches (1067 mm) and a maximum of 48 inches (1219 mm) above the finished floor. 

5. 	
Dispensers shall not release their contents except when the dispenser is manually activated. Facilities shall be permitted to install and use automatically activated "touch free" alcohol-based hand-rub dispensing devices with the following requirements: 


5.1. The facility or persons responsible for the dis­pensers shall test the dispensers each time a new refill is installed in accordance with the manu­facturer's care and use instructions. 
5.2. Dispensers shall be designed and must operate in a manner that ensures accidental or malicious activations of the dispensing device are mini­mized. At a minimum, all devices subject to or used in accordance with this section shall have the following safety features: 
5.2.1. Any activations 	of the dispenser shall only occur when an object is placed within 4 inches (98 mm) of the sensing device. 
5.2.2. 	The dispenser shall not dispense more than the amount required for hand hygiene consistent with label instruc­tions as regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5.2.3. 
An object placed within the activation zone and left in place will cause only one activation. 


6. 	
Storage and use of alcohol-based hand tubs shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sections 5704 and 5705. 

7. 
Dispensers 	installed in occupancies with carpeted floors shall only be allowed in smoke compartments or fire areas equipped throughout with an approved auto­matic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 


903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. 
5705.5.1 Corridor installations. Where wall-mounted dispensers containing alcohol-based hand tubs are installed in corridors, they shall be in accordance with all of the following: 
1. 	
Level 2 and 3 aerosol containers shall not be allowed in corridors. 

2. 	
The maximum capacity of each Class I or II liquid dispenser shall be 41 ounces (1.21 L) and the maxi­mum capacity of each Level 1 aerosol dispenser shall be 18 ounces (0.51 kg). 

3. 	
The maximum quantity allowed in a corridor within a control area shall be 10 gallons (37.85 L) of Class I or II liquids or 1135 ounces (32.2 kg) of Level 1 aerosols, or a combination of Class I or II liquids and Level 1 aerosols not to exceed, in total, the equivalent of 10 gallons (37.85 L) or 1,135 ounces 


(32.2 kg) such that the sum of the ratios of the liquid and aerosol quantities divided by the allowable quantity of liquids and aerosols, respectively, shall not exceed one. 

4. 
The minimum corridor width shall be 72 inches (1829 mm). 

5. 	
Projections into a corridor shall be in accordance with Section 1003.3.3. 


SECTION 5706 
SPECIAL OPERATIONS 


5706.1 General. This section shall cover the provisions for special operations which include, but are not limited to, stor­age, use, dispensing, mixing or handling of flammable and combustible liquids. The following special operations shall be in accordance with Sections 5701, 5703, 5704 and 5705, except as provided in Section 5706. 
1. 	
Storage and dispensing of flammable and combustible liquids on farms and consttuction sites. 

2. 	
Well drilling and operating. 

3. 	
Bulk plants or terminals. 

4. 
Bulk transfer and process transfer operations utilizing tank vehicles and tank cars. 

5. 	
Tank vehicles and tank vehicle operation. 

6. 	
Refineries. 

7. 
Vapor recovery and vapor-processing systems. 


5706.2 Storage and dispensing of flammable and combus­tible liquids on farms and construction sites. Permanent and temporary storage and dispensing of Class I and II liquids for private use on farms and tural areas and at consttuction sites, earth-moving projects, gravel pits or bonow pits shall be in accordance with Sections 5706.2.1 through 5706.2.8.1. 
Exception: Storage and use of fuel oil and containers con­nected with oil-burning equipment regulated by Section 603 and the California Mechanical Code. 
5706.2.1 Combustibles and open flames near tanks. Storage areas shall be kept free from weeds and extrane­ous combustible material. Open flames and smoking are 
· prohibited in flammable or combustible liquid storage areas. 
5706.2.2 Marking of tanks and containers. Tanks and containers for the storage of liquids above ground shall be conspicuously marked with the name of the product which they contain and the words: FLAMMABLE-KEEP FIRE AND FLAME AWAY. Tanks shall bear the additional marking: KEEP 50 FEET FROM BUILDINGS. 
5706.2.3 Containers for storage and use. Metal contain­ers used for storage of Class I or II liquids shall be in accordance with DOTn requirements or shall be of an approved design. 
Discharge devices shall be of a type that do not develop an internal pressure on the container. Pumping devices or approved self-closing faucets used for dispensing liquids shall not leak and shall be well-maintained. Individual containers shall not be interconnected and shall be kept closed when not in use. 
Containers stored outside of buildings shall be in accor­dance with Section 5704 and the California Building Code. 
5706.2.4 Permanent and temporary tanks. The capacity of permanent above-ground tanks containing Class I or II liquids shall not exceed 1,100 gallons (4164 L). The capac­ity of temporary above-ground tanks containing Class I or II liquids shall not exceed 10,000 gallons (37 854 L). Tanks shall be of the single-compartment design. 
Exception: Permanent above-ground tanks of greater capacity which meet the requirements of Section 5704.2. 
5706.2.4.1 Fill-opening security. Fill openings shall be equipped with a locking closure device. Fill open­ings shall be separate from vent openings. 
5706.2.4.2 Vents. Tanks shall be provided with a method of normal and emergency venting. Normal vents shall also be in accordance with Section 5704.2.7.3. 
Emergency vents shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 5704.2.7.4. Emergency vents shall be ananged to discharge in a manner which prevents localized over­heating or flame impingement on any part of the tank in the event that vapors from such vents are ignited. 
5706.2.4.3 Location. Tanks containing Class I or II liq­
uids shall be kept outside and at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) from buildings and combustible storage. Addi­tional distance shall be provided when necessary to ensure that vehicles, equipment and containers being filled directly from such tanks will not be less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from structures, haystacks or other combustible storage. 
5706.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. The storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within the limits established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage is prohibited (see Section 3 of the Sample Legislation for Adoption of the California Fire Code on page xxvi.) 
5706.2.5 Type of tank. Tanks shall be provided with top openings only or shall be elevated for gravity discharge. 
5706.2.5.1 Tanks with top openings only. Tanks with top openings shall be mounted as follows: 
1. 	
On well-constructed metal legs connected to shoes or runners designed so that the tank is sta­bilized and the entire tank and its supports can be moved as a unit; or 

2. 	
For stationary tanks, on a stable base of timbers or blocks approximately 6 inches (152 mm) in height which prevents the tank from contacting the ground. 


5706.2.5.1.1 Pumps and fittings. Tanks with top openings only shall be equipped with a tightly and permanently attached, approved pumping device having an approved hose of sufficient length for fill­ing vehicles, equipment or containers to be served from the tank. Either the pump or the hose shall be equipped with a padlock to its hanger to prevent tampering. An effective antisiphoning device shall be included in the pump discharge unless a self-clos­ing nozzle is provided. Siphons or internal pressure discharge devices shall not be used. 
5706.2.5.2 Tanks for gravity discharge. Tanks with a connection in the bottom or the end for gravity-dispens­ing liquids shall be mounted and equipped as follows: 
1. 	
Supports to elevate the tank for gravity discharge shall be designed to carry all required loads and provide stability. 

2. 	
Bottom or end openings for gravity discharge shall be equipped with a valve located adjacent to the tank shell which will close automatically in the event of fire through the operation of an effective heat-activated releasing device. Where this valve cannot be operated manually, it shall be supplemented by a second, manually operated valve. 


The gravity discharge outlet shall be provided with an approved hose equipped with a self-closing valve at the discharge end of a type that can be padlocked to its hanger. 
5706.2.6 Spill control drainage control and diking. Indoor storage and dispensing areas shall be provided with 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
spill control and drainage control as set forth in Section 5703.4. Outdoor storage areas shall be provided with drainage control or diking as set forth in Section 5704.2.10. 
5706.2.7 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extin­guishers with a minimum rating of 20-B:C and complying with Section 906 shall be provided where required by the fire code official. 
5706.2.8 Dispensing from tank vehicles. Where approved, liquids used as fuels are allowed to be trans­ferred from tank vehicles into the tanks of motor vehicles or special equipment, provided: 
1. 	
The tank vehicle's specific function is that of sup­plying fuel to motor vehicle fuel tanks. 

2. 	
The dispensing hose does not exceed 100 feet (30 480 mm) in length. 

3. 	
The dispensing nozzle is an approved type. 

4. 	
The dispensing hose is properly placed on an approved reel or in a compartment provided before the tank vehicle is moved. 

5. 	
Signs prohibiting smoking or open flames within 25 feet (7620 mm) of the vehicle or the point of refuel­ing are prominently posted on the tank vehicle. 

6. 	
Electrical devices and wiring in areas where fuel dispensing is conducted are in accordance with Cali­fornia Electrical Code. 

7. 	
Tank vehicle-dispensing equipment is operated only by designated personnel who are trained to handle and dispense motor fuels. 

8. 	
Provisions are made for controlling and mitigating unauthorized discharges. 


5706.2.8.1 Location. Dispensing from tank vehicles shall be conducted at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) from structures or combustible storage. 

5706.3 Well drilling and operating. Wells for oil and natu­
ral gas shall be drilled and operated in accordance with Sec­
tions 5706.3.1 through 5706.3.8. 
5706.3.1 Location. The location of wells shall comply with Sections 5706.3.1.1 through 5706.3.1.3.2. 
5706.3.1.1 Storage tanks and sources of ignition. Storage tanks or boilers, fired heaters, open-flame devices or other sources of ignition shall not be located within 25 feet (7620 mm) of well heads. Smoking is prohibited at wells or tank locations except as desig­nated and in approved posted areas. 
Exception: Engines used in the drilling, production and serving of wells. 
5706.3.1.2 Streets and railways. Wells shall not be drilled within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of any dedicated public street, highway or nearest rail of an operating railway. 
5706.3.1.3 Buildings. Wells shall not be drilled within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of buildings not necessary to the operation of the well. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5706.3.1.3.1 Group A, E or I buildings. Wells shall not be drilled within 300 feet (91 440 mm) of buildings with an occupancy in Group A, E or I. 

5706.3.1.3.2 Existing wells. Where wells are exist­ing, buildings shall not be constructed within the distances set forth in Section 5706.3.1 for separation of wells or buildings. 
5706.3.2 Waste control. Control of waste materials asso­ciated with wells shall comply with Sections 5706.3.2.1 and 5706.3.2.2. 
5706.3.2.1 Discharge on a street or water channel. Liquids containing crude petroleum or its products shall not be discharged into or on streets, highways, drainage canals or ditches, storm drains or flood control channels. 
5706.3.2.2 Discharge and combustible materials on ground. The surface of the ground under, around or near wells, pumps, boilers, oil storage tanks or build­ings shall be kept free from oil, waste oil, refuse or waste material. 
5706.3.3 Sumps. Sumps associated with wells shall com­ply with Sections 5706.3.3.1 through 5706.3.3.3. 
5706.3.3.1 Maximum width. Sumps or other basins for the retention of oil or petroleum products shall not exceed 12 feet (3658 mm) in width. 
5706.3.3.2 Backfilling. Sumps or other basins for the retention of oil or petroleum products larger than 6 feet by 6 feet by 6 feet (1829 mm by 1829 mm by 1829 mm) shall not be maintained longer than 60 days after the cessation of drilling operations. 
5706.3.3.3 Security. Sumps, diversion ditches and depressions used as sumps shall be securely fenced or covered. 
5706.3.4 Prevention of blowouts. Protection shall be pro­vided to control and prevent the blowout of a well. Protec­tion equipment shall meet federal, state and other applicable jurisdiction requirements. 
5706.3.5 Storage tanks. Storage of flammable or combus­tible liquids in tanks shall be in accordance with Section 5704. Oil storage tanks or groups of tanks shall have posted in a conspicuous place, on or near such tank or tanks, an approved sign with the name of the owner or operator, or the lease number and the telephone number where a responsible person can be reached at any time. 
5706.3.6 Soundproofing. Where soundproofing material is required during oil field operations, such material shall be noncombustible. 
5706.3.7 Signs. Well locations shall have posted in a con­spicuous place on or near such tank or tanks an approved sign with the name of the owner or operator, name of the leasee or the lease number, the well number and the tele­phone number where a responsible person can be reached at any time. Such signs shall be maintained on the prem­ises from the time materials are delivered for drilling pur­poses until the well is abandoned. 
5706.3.8 Field-loading racks. Field-loading racks shall be in accordance with Section 5706.5. 
5706.4 Bulk plants or terminals. Portions of properties where flammable and combustible liquids are received by tank vessels, pipelines, tank cars or tank vehicles and which are stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank vessels, pipelines, tanks cars, tank vehi­cles or containers shall be in accordance with Sections 5706.4.1 through 5706.4.1 0.4. 
5706.4.1 Building construction. Buildings shall be con­structed in accordance with the California Building Code. 
5706.4.2 Means of egress. Rooms in which liquids are stored, used or transferred by pumps shall have means of egress arranged to prevent occupants from being trapped in the event of fire. 
5706.4.3 Heating. Rooms in which Class I liquids are stored or used shall be heated only by means not constitut­ing a source of ignition, such as steam or hot water. Rooms containing heating appliances involving sources of ignition shall be located and arranged to prevent entry of flammable vapors. 
5706.4.4 Ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided for rooms, buildings and enclosures in which Class I liquids are pumped, used or transferred. Design of ventilation sys­tems shall consider the relatively high specific gravity of the vapors. When natural ventilation is used, adequate openings in outside walls at floor level, unobstructed except by louvers or coarse screens, shall be provided. When natural ventilation is inadequate, mechanical venti­lation shall be provided in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
5706.4.4.1 Basements and pits. Class I liquids shall not be stored or used within a building having a base­ment or pit into which flammable vapors can travel, unless such area is provided with ventilation designed to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors therein. 
5706.4.4.2 Dispensing of Class I liquids. Containers of Class I liquids shall not be drawn from or filled within buildings unless a provision is made to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors in hazardous concentrations. Where mechanical ventilation is required, it shall be kept in operation while flammable vapors could be present. 
5706.4.5 Storage. Storage of Class I, II and IliA liquids in bulk plants shall be in accordance with the applicable pro­visions of Section 5704. 
5706.4.6 Overfill protection of Class I and II liquids. Manual and automatic systems shall be provided to pre­vent overfill during the transfer of Class I and II liquids from mainline pipelines and marine vessels in accordance with API 2350. 
5706.4.7 Wharves. This section shall apply to all wharves, piers, bulkheads and other structures over or con­tiguous to navigable water having a primary function of transferring liquid cargo in bulk between shore installa­tions and tank vessels, ships, barges, lighter boats or other mobile floating craft. 
Exception: Marine motor fuel-dispensing facilities in accordance with Chapter 23. 
5706.4.7.1 Transferring approvals. Handling pack­aged cargo of liquids, including full and empty drums, bulk fuel and stores, over a wharf during cargo transfer shall be subject to the approval of the wharf supervisor and the senior deck officer on duty. 
5706.4.7.2 Transferring location. Wharves at which liquid cargoes are to be transferred in bulk quantities to or from tank vessels shall be at least 100 feet (30 480 mm) from any bridge over a navigable waterway; or from an entrance to, or superstructure of, any vehicular or railroad tunnel under a waterway. The termination of the fixed piping used for loading or unloading at a wharf shall be at least 200 feet (60 960 mm) from a bridge or from an entrance to, or superstructures of, a tunnel. 
5706.4.7.3 Superstructure and decking material. 
Superstructure and decking shall be designed for the intended use. Decking shall be constructed of materials that will afford the desired combination of flexibility, resistance to shock, durability, strength and fire resis­tance. 
5706.4.7.4 Tanks allowed. Tanks used exclusively for ballast water or Class II or III liquids are allowed to be installed on suitably designed wharves. 
5706.4.7.5 Transferring equipment. Loading pumps capable of building up pressures in excess of the safe working pressure of cargo hose or loading arms shall be provided with bypasses, relief valves or other arrange­ments to protect the loading facilities against excessive pressure. Relief devices shall be tested at least annually to determine that they function satisfactorily at their set pressure. 
5706.4.7.6 Piping, valves and fittings. Piping valves and fittings shall be in accordance with Section 5703.6 except as modified by the following: 
1. 	
Flexibility of piping shall be ensured by appropri­ate layout and arrangement of piping supports so that motion of the wharf structure resulting from wave action, currents, tides or the mooring of vessels will not subject the pipe to repeated excessive strain. 

2. 	
Pipe joints that depend on the friction characteris­tics of combustible materials or on the grooving of pipe ends for mechanical continuity of piping shall not be used. 

3. 	
Swivel joints are allowed in piping to which hoses are connected and for articulated, swivel­joint transfer systems, provided the design is such that the mechanical strength of the joint will not be impaired if the packing materials fail such as by exposure to fire. 


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
4. 	
Each line conveying Class I or II liquids leading to a wharf shall be provided with a readily acces­sible block valve located on shore near the approach to the wharf and outside of any diked area. Where more than one line is involved, the valves shall be grouped in one location. 

5. 
Means shall be provided for easy access to cargo line valves located below the wharf deck. 

6. 	
Piping systems shall contain a sufficient number of valves to operate the system properly and to control the flow of liquid in normal operation and in the event of physical damage. 

7. 	
Piping on wharves shall be bonded and grounded where Class I and II liquids are transported. Where excessive stray currents are encountered, insulating joints shall be installed. Bonding and grounding connections on piping shall be located on the wharf side of hose riser insulating flanges, where used, and shall be accessible for inspec­tion. 

8. 	
Hose or articulated swivel-joint pipe connections used for cargo transfer shall be capable of accom­modating the combined effects of change in draft and maximum tidal range, and mooring lines shall be kept adjusted to prevent surge of the ves­sel from placing stress on the cargo transfer sys­tem. 

9. 	
Hoses shall be supported to avoid kinking and damage from chafing. 


5706.4.7.7 Loading and unloading. Loading or dis­charging shall not commence until the wharf superin­tendent and officer in charge of the tank vessel agree that the tank vessel is properly moored and connections are properly made. 
5706.4.7.8 Mechanical work. Mechanical work shall not be performed on the wharf during cargo transfer, except under special authorization by the fire code offi­cial based on a review of the area involved, methods to be employed and precautions necessary. 

5706.4.8 Sources of ignition. Class I, II or IliA liquids shall not be used, drawn or dispensed where flammable vapors can reach a source of ignition. Smoking shall be prohibited except in designated locations. "No Smoking" signs complying with Section 310 shall be conspicuously posted where a hazard from flammable vapors is normally present. 
5706.4.9 Drainage control. Loading and unloading areas shall be provided with drainage control in accordance with Section 5704.2.10. 
5706.4.10 Fire protection. Fire protection shall be in accordance with Chapter 9 and Sections 5706.4.10.1 through 5706.4.10.4. 
5706.4.10.1 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers with a rating of not less than 20-B and complying with Section 906 shall be located within 75 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
feet (22 860 mm) of hose connections, pumps and sepa­rator tanks. 
5706.4.10.2 Fire hoses. Where piped water is avail­able, ready-connected fire hose in a size appropriate for the water supply shall be provided in accordance with Section 905 so that manifolds where connections are made and broken can be reached by at least one hose stream. 
5706.4.10.3 Obstruction of equipment. Material shall not be placed on wharves in such a manner that would obstmct access to fire-fighting equipment or important pipeline control valves. 
5706.4.10.4 Fire apparatus access. Where the wharf is accessible to vehicular traffic, an unobstmcted fire apparatus access road to the shore end of the wharf shall be maintained in accordance with Chapter 5. 
5706.5 Bulk transfer and process transfer operations. Bulk transfer and process transfer operations shall be approved and be in accordance with Sections 5706.5.1 through 5706.5.4.5. Motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall comply with Chapter 23. 
5706.5.1 General. The provisions of Sections 5706.5.1.1 through 5706.5.1.18 shall apply to bulk transfer and pro­cess transfer operations; Sections 5706.5.2 and 5706.5.2.1 shall apply to bulk transfer operations; Sections 5706.5.3 through 5706.5.3.3 shall apply to process transfer opera­tions and Sections 5706.5.4 through 5706.5.4.5 shall apply to dispensing from tank vehicles and tank cars. 
5706.5.1.1 Location. Bulk transfer and process transfer operations shall be conducted in approved locations. Tank cars shall be unloaded only on private sidings or railroad-siding facilities equipped for transfen·ing flam­mable or combustible liquids. Tank vehicle and tank car transfer facilities shall be separated from buildings, above-ground tanks, combustible materials, lot lines, public streets, public alleys or public ways by a dis­tance of 25 feet (7620 mm) for Class I liquids and 15 feet ( 4572 mm) for Class II and III liquids measured from the nearest position of any loading or unloading valve. Buildings for pumps or shelters for personnel shall be considered part of the transfer facility. 
5706.5.1.2 Weather protection canopies. Where weather protection canopies are provided, they shall be constmcted in accordance with Section 5004.13. Weather protection canopies shall not be located within 15 feet (4572 mm) of a building or combustible mate­rial or within 25 feet (7620 mm) of building openings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys or public ways. 
5706.5.1.3 Ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided to prevent accumulation of vapors in accordance with Section 5705.3.7.5.1. 
5706.5.1.4 Sources of ignition. Sources of ignition shall be controlled or eliminated in accordance with Section 5003.7. 
5706.5.1.5 Spill control and secondary containment. Areas where transfer operations are located shall be provided with spill control and secondary containment in accordance with Section 5703.4. The spill control and secondary containment system shall have a design capacity capable of containing the capacity of the larg­est tank compartment located in the area where transfer operations are conducted. Containment of the rainfall volume specified in Section 5004.2.2.6 is not required. 
5706.5.1.6 Fire protection. Fire protection shall be in accordance with Section 5703.2. 
5706.5.1.7 Static protection. Static protection shall be provided to prevent the accumulation of static charges during transfer operations. Bonding facilities shall be provided during the transfer through open domes where Class I liquids are transferred, or where Class II and III liquids are transferred into tank vehicles or tank cars which could contain vapors from previous cargoes of Class I liquids. 
Protection shall consist of a metallic bond wire per­manently electrically connected to the fill stem. The fill pipe assembly shall form a continuous electrically con­ductive path downstream from the point of bonding. The free end of such bond wire shall be provided with a clamp or equivalent device for convenient attachment to a metallic part in electrical contact with the cargo tank of the tank vehicle or tank car. For tank vehicles, protection shall consist of a flexible bond wire of ade­quate strength for the intended service and the electrical resistance shall not exceed 1 megohm. For tank cars, bonding shall be provided where the resistance of a tank car to ground through the rails is 25 ohms or greater. 
Such bonding connection shall be fastened to the vehicle, car or tank before dome covers are raised and shall remain in place until filling is complete and all dome covers have been closed and secured. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where vehicles and cars are loaded exclu­sively with products not having a static-accu­mulating tendency, such as asphalt, cutback asphalt, most etude oils, residual oils and water-miscible liquids. 

2. 	
When Class I liquids are not handled at the transfer facility and the tank vehicles are used exclusively for Class II and III liquids. 

3. 	
Where vehicles and cars are loaded or unloaded through closed top or bottom con­nections whether the hose is conductive or nonconductive. 



Filling through open domes into the tanks of tank vehicles or tank cars that contain vapor-air mixtures within the flammable range, or where the liquid being filled can form such a mixture, shall be by means of a downspout which extends to near the bottom of the tank. 
5706.5.1.8 Stray current protection. Tank car loading facilities where Class I, II or IliA liquids are transferred through open domes shall be protected against stray currents by permanently bonding the pipe to at least one rail and to the transfer apparatus. Multiple pipes entering the transfer areas shall be permanently electri­cally bonded together. In areas where excessive stray currents are known to exist, all pipes entering the trans­fer area shall be provided with insulating sections to isolate electrically the transfer apparatus from the pipe­lines. 
5706.5.1.9 Top loading. When top loading a tank vehi­cle with Class I and II liquids without vapor control, valves used for the final control of flow shall be of the self-closing type and shall be manually held open except where automatic means are provided for shut­ting off the flow when the tank is full. When used, auto­matic shutoff systems shall be provided with a manual shutoff valve located at a safe distance from the loading nozzle to stop the flow if the automatic system fails. 
When top loading a tank vehicle with vapor control, flow control shall be in accordance with Section 5706.5.1.10. Self-closing valves shall not be tied or locked in the open position. 
5706.5.1.10 Bottom loading. When bottom loading a tank vehicle or tank car with or without vapor control, a positive means shall be provided for loading a predeter­mined quantity of liquid, together with an automatic secondary shutoff control to prevent overfill. The con­necting components between the transfer equipment and the tank vehicle or tank car required to operate the secondary control shall be functionally compatible. 
5706.5.1.10.1 Dry disconnect coupling. When bot­tom loading a tank vehicle, the coupling between the liquid loading hose or pipe and the truck piping shall be a dry disconnect coupling. 
5706.5.1.10.2 Venting. When bottom loading a tank vehicle or tank car that is equipped for vapor control and vapor control is not used, the tank shall be vented to the atmosphere to prevent pressurization of the tank. Such venting shall be at a height equal to or greater than the top of the cargo tank. 
5706.5.1.10.3 Vapor-tight connection. Connec­tions to the plant vapor control system shall be designed to prevent the escape of vapor to the atmo­sphere when not connected to a tank vehicle or tank car. 
5706.5.1.10.4 Vapor-processing equipment. Vapor-processing equipment shall be separated from above-ground tanks, warehouses, other plant build­ings, transfer facilities or nearest lot line of adjoin­ing property that can be built on by a distance of at least 25 feet (7620 mm). Vapor-processing equip­ment shall be protected from physical damage by remote location, guard rails, curbs or fencing. 
5706.5.1.11 Switch loading. Tank vehicles or tank cars which have previously contained Class I liquids shall not be loaded with Class II or III liquids until such vehicles and all piping, pumps, hoses and meters con­nected thereto have been completely drained and flushed. 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
Exception: When approved by the Enforcing Agency, the procedures prescribed in API (API-RP­2003) Recommended Practices 2003 entitled "Pro­tection Against Ignitions Arising Out of Static, Lightning, and Stray Currents" may be used for changing tank contents. 
5706.5.1.12 Loading racks. Where provided, loading racks, stairs or platforms shall be constructed of non­combustible materials. Buildings for pumps or for shel­ter of loading personnel are allowed to be part of the loading rack. Wiring and electrical equipment located within 25 feet (7620 mm) of any portion of the loading rack shall be in accordance with Section 5703 .1.1. 
5706.5.1.13 Transfer apparatus. Bulk and process transfer apparatus shall be of an approved type. 
5706.5.1.14 Inside buildings. Tank vehicles and tank cars shall not be located inside a building while trans­ferr-ing Class I, II or IliA liquids, unless approved by the fire code official. 
Exception: Tank vehicles are allowed under weather protection canopies and canopies of auto­mobile motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations. 
5706.5.1.15 Tank vehicle and tank car certification. Certification shall be maintained for tank vehicles and tank cars in accordance with DOTn 49 CFR Parts 100­
185. 
5706.5.1.16 Tank vehicle and tank car stability. Tank vehicles and tank cars shall be stabilized against movement during loading and unloading in accordance with Sections 5706.5.1.16.1 through 5706.5.1.16.3. 
5706.5.1.16.1 Tank vehicles. When the vehicle is parked for loading or unloading, the cargo trailer portion of the tank vehicle shall be secured in a man­ner that will prevent unintentional movement. 
5706.5.1.16.2 Chock blocks. At least two chock blocks not less than 5 inches by 5 inches by 12 inches (127 mm by 127 mm by 305 mm) in size and dished to fit the contour of the tires shall be used during transfer operations of tank vehicles. 
5706.5.1.16.3 Tank cars. Brakes shall be set and the wheels shall be blocked to prevent rolling. 
5706.5.1.17 Monitoring. Transfer operations shall be monitored by an approved monitoring system or by an attendant. When monitoring is by an attendant, the operator or other competent person shall be present at all times. 
5706.5.1.18 Security. Transfer operations shall be sur­rounded by a noncombustible fence not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) in height. Tank vehicles and tank cars shall not be loaded or unloaded unless such vehicles are entirely within the fenced area. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Motor fuel-dispensing facilities complying with Chapter 23. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
2. 	
Installations where adequate public safety exists because of isolation, natural barriers or other factors as determined appropriate by the fire code official. 

3. 	
Facilities or properties that are entirely enclosed or protected from entry. 



5706.5.2 Bulk transfer. Bulk transfer shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5706.5.1 and 5706.5.2.1. 
5706.5.2.1 Vehicle motor. Motors of tank vehicles or tank cars shall be shut off during the making and break­ing of hose connections and during the unloading oper­ation. 
Exception: Where unloading is performed with a pump deriving its power from the tank vehicle motor. 
5706.5.3 Process transfer. Process transfer shall be in accordance with Section 5706.5.1 and Sections 5706.5.3.1 through 5706.5.3.3. 
5706.5.3.1 Piping, valves, hoses and fittings. Piping, valves, hoses and fittings which are not a part of the tank vehicle or tank car shall be in accordance with Section 5703.6. Caps or plugs which prevent leakage or spillage shall be provided at all points of connection to transfer piping. 
5706.5.3.1.1 Shutoff valves. Approved automati­cally or manually activated shutoff valves shall be provided where the transfer hose connects to the process piping, and on both sides of any exterior fire-resistance-rated wall through which the piping passes. Manual shutoff valves shall be arranged so that they are accessible from grade. Valves shall not be locked in the open position. 
5706.5.3.1.2 Hydrostatic relief. Hydrostatic pres­sure-limiting or relief devices shall be provided where pressure buildup in trapped sections of the system could exceed the design pressure of the com­ponents of the system. 
Devices shall relieve to other portions of the sys­tem or to another approved location. 
5706.5.3.1.3 Antisiphon valves. Antisiphon valves shall be provided when the system design would allow siphonage. 
5706.5.3.2 Vents. Normal and emergency vents shall be maintained operable at all times. 
5706.5.3.3 Motive power. Motors of tank vehicles or tank cars shall be shut off during the making and break­ing of hose connections and during the unloading oper­ation. 
Exception: When unloading is performed with a pump deriving its power from the tank vehicle motor. 
5706.5.4 Dispensing from tank vehicles and tank cars. 
Dispensing from tank vehicles and tank cars into the fuel 
tanks of motor vehicles shall be prohibited unless allowed by and conducted in accordance with Sections 5706.5.4.1 through 5706.5.4.5. 
5706.5.4.1 Marine craft and special equipment. Liq­uids intended for use as motor fuels are allowed to be transferred from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of marine craft and special equipment when approved by the fire code official, and when: 
1. 	
The tank vehicle's specific function is that of supplying fuel to fuel tanks. 

2. 	
The operation is not performed where the public has access or where there is unusual exposure to life and property. 

3. 	
The dispensing line does not exceed 50 feet (15 240 mm) in length. 

4. 
The dispensing nozzle is approved. 


5706.5.4.2 Emergency refueling. When approved by the fire code official, dispensing of motor vehicle fuel from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles is allowed during emergencies. Dispensing from tank vehicles shall be in accordance with Sections 5706.2.8 and 5706.6. 
5706.5.4.3 Aircraft fueling. Transfer of liquids from tank vehicles to the fuel tanks of aircraft shall be in accordance with Chapter 20. 
5706.5.4.4 Fueling of vehicles at farms, construction sites and similar areas. Transfer of liquid from tank vehicles to motor vehicles for private use on farms and rural areas and at construction sites, earth-moving proj­ects, gravel pits and borrow pits is allowed in accor­dance with Section 5706.2.8. 
5706.5.4.5 Commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing. Dispensing of Class II and III motor vehicle fuel from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles located at commercial, industrial, gov­ernmental or manufacturing establishments is allowed where permitted, provided such dispensing operations are conducted in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Dispensing shall occur only at sites that have been issued a permit to conduct mobile fueling. 

2. 
The 	owner of a mobile fueling operation shall provide to the jurisdiction a written response plan which demonstrates readiness to respond to a fuel spill and carry out appropriate mitigation mea­sures, and describes the process to dispose prop­erly of contaminated materials. 

3. 
A detailed site plan shall be submitted with each application for a permit. The site plan shall indi­cate: all buildings, structures and appurtenances on site and their use or function; all uses adjacent to the lot lines of the site; the locations of all storm drain openings, adjacent waterways or wet­lands; information regarding slope, natural drain­age, curbing, impounding and how a spill will be retained upon the site property; and the scale of the site plan. 


Provisions shall be made to prevent liquids spilled during dispensing operations from flowing into buildings or off-site. Acceptable methods include, but shall not be limited to, grading drive­ways, raising doorsills or other approved means. 
4. 
The fire code official is allowed to impose limits on the times and days during which mobile fuel­ing operations is allowed to take place, and spe­cific locations on a site where fueling is permitted. 

5. 
Mobile fueling operations shall be conducted in areas not accessible to the public or shall be lim­ited to times when the public is not present. 

6. 	
Mobile fueling shall not take place within 15 feet ( 4572 mm) of buildings, property lines, combus­tible storage or storm drains. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
The distance to storm drains shall not apply where an approved storm drain cover or an approved equivalent that will prevent any fuel from reaching the drain is in place prior to fueling or a fueling hose being placed within 15 feet (4572 mm) of the drain. Where placement of a storm drain cover will cause the accumulation of excessive water or difficulty in conducting the fueling, such cover shall not be used and the fueling shall not take place within 15 feet (4572 mm) of a drain. 

2. 	
The distance to storm drains shall not apply for drains that direct influent to approved oil interceptors. 


7. 	
The tank vehicle shall comply with the require­ments of NFPA 385 and local, state and federal requirements. The tank vehicle's specific func­tions shall include that of supplying fuel to motor vehicle fuel tanks. The vehicle and all its equipment shall be maintained in good repair. 

8. 	
Signs prohibiting smoking or open flames within 25 feet (7620 mm) of the tank vehicle or the point of fueling shall be prominently posted on three sides of the vehicle including the back and both sides. 

9. 	
A portable fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 40:BC shall be provided on the vehicle with signage clearly indicating its location. 

10. 	
The dispensing nozzles and hoses shall be of an approved and listed type. 

11. 	
The dispensing hose shall not be extended from the reel more than 100 feet (30 480 mm) in length. 

12. 	
Absorbent materials, nonwater-absorbent pads, a 10-foot-long (3048 mm) containment boom, an approved container with lid and a nonmetal-


FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
lie shovel shall be provided to mitigate a mini­mum 5-gallon (19 L) fuel spill. 
13. 	
Tank vehicles shall be equipped with a "fuel limit" switch such as a count-back switch, to limit the amount of a single fueling operation to a maximum of 500 gallons (1893 L) before resetting the limit switch. 

Exception: Tank vehicles where the operator carries and can utilize a remote emergency shutoff device which, when activated, imme­diately causes flow of fuel from the tank vehi­cle to cease. 

14. 	
Persons responsible for dispensing operations shall be trained in the appropriate mitigating actions in the event of a fire, leak or spill. Train­ing records shall be maintained by the dispens­ing company and shall be made available to the fire code official upon request. 

15. 	
Operators of tank vehicles used for mobile fuel­ing operations shall have in their possession at all times an emergency communications device to notify the proper authorities in the event of an emergency. 

16. 	
The tank vehicle dispensing equipment shall be constantly attended and operated only by desig­nated personnel who are trained to handle and dispense motor fuels. 

17. 	
Fuel dispensing shall be prohibited within 25 feet (7620 mm) of any source of ignition. 

18. 	
The engines of vehicles being fueled shall be shut off during dispensing operations. 

19. 	
Nighttime fueling operations shall only take place in adequately lighted areas. 

20. 	
The tank vehicle shall be positioned with respect to vehicles being fueled to prevent traf­fic from driving over the delivery hose. 

21. 	
During fueling operations, tank vehicle brakes shall be set, chock blocks shall be in place and warning lights shall be in operation. 

22. 	
Motor vehicle fuel tanks shall not be topped off. 

23. 	
The dispensing hose shall be properly placed on an approved reel or in an approved compart­ment prior to moving the tank vehicle. 

24. 	
The fire code official and other appropriate authorities shall be notified when a reportable spill or unauthorized discharge occurs. 

25. 	
Operators shall place a drip pan or an absorbent pillow under each fuel fill opening prior to and during dispensing operations. Drip pans shall be liquid-tight. The pan or absorbent pillow shall have a capacity of not less than 3 gallons (11.36 L). Spills retained in the drip pan or absorbent pillow need not be reported. Operators, when fueling, shall have on their person an absorbent pad capable of capturing diesel fuel overfills. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Except during fueling, the nozzle shall face upward and an absorbent pad shall be kept under the nozzle to catch drips. Contaminated absorbent pads or pillows shall be disposed of regularly in accordance with local, state and federal requirements. 

5706.6 Tank vehicles and vehicle operation. Tank vehicles shall be designed, constructed, equipped and maintained in accordance with NFP A 385 and Sections 5706.6.1 through 5706.6.4. 
5706.6.1 Operation of tank vehicles. Tank vehicles shall be utilized and operated in accordance with NFPA 385 and Sections 5706.6.1.1 through 5706.6.1.11. 
5706.6.1.1 Vehicle maintenance. Tank vehicles shall not be operated unless they are in proper state of repair and free from accumulation of grease, oil or other flam­mable substance, and leaks. 
5706.6.1.2 Leaving vehicle unattended. The driver, operator or attendant of a tank vehicle shall not remain in the vehicle cab and shall not leave the vehicle while it is being filled or discharged. The delivery hose, when attached to a tank vehicle, shall be considered to be a part of the tank vehicle. 
5706.6.1.3 Vehicle motor shutdown. Motors of tank vehicles or tractors shall be shut down during the mak­ing or breaking of hose connections. If loading or unloading is petformed without the use of a power pump, the tank vehicle or tractor motor shall be shut down throughout such operations. 
5706.6.1.4 Outage. A cargo tank or compartment thereof used for the transportation of flammable or combustible liquids shall not be loaded to absolute capacity. The vacant space in a cargo tank or compart­ment thereof used in the transportation of flammable or combustible liquids shall not be less than 1 percent. Sufficient space shall be left vacant to prevent leakage from or distortion of such tank or compartment by expansion of the contents caused by rise in temperature in transit. 
5706.6.1.5 Overfill protection. The driver, operator or attendant of a tank vehicle shall, before making deliv­ery to a tank, determine the unfilled capacity of such tank by a suitable gauging device. To prevent ovetfill­ing, the driver, operator or attendant shall not deliver in excess of that amount. 
5706.6.1.6 Securing hatches. During loading, hatch covers shall be secured on all but the receiving com­partment. 
5706.6.1.7 Liquid temperature. Materials shall not be loaded into or transported in a tank vehicle at a temper­ature above the material's ignition temperature unless safeguarded in an approved manner. 
5706.6.1.8 Bonding to underground tanks. An exter­nal bond-wire connection or bond-wire integral with a hose shall be provided for the transferring of flammable liquids through open connections into underground tanks. 
5706.6.1.9 Smoking. Smoking by tank vehicle drivers, helpers or other personnel is prohibited while they are driving, making deliveries, filling or making repairs to tank vehicles. 
5706.6.1.10 Hose connections. Delivery of flammable liquids to underground tanks with a capacity of more than 1,000 gallons (3785 L) shall be made by means of approved liquid and vapor-tight connections between the delivery hose and tank fill pipe. Where underground tanks are equipped with any type of vapor recovery sys­tem, all connections required to be made for the safe and proper functioning of the particular vapor recovery process shall be made. Such connections shall be made liquid and vapor tight and remain connected throughout the unloading process. Vapors shall not be discharged at grade level during delivery. 
5706.6.1.10.1 Simultaneous delivery. Simultane­ous delivery to underground tanks of any capacity from two or more discharge hoses shall be made by means of mechanically tight connections between the hose and fill pipe. 
5706.6.1.11 Hose protection. Upon arrival at a point of delivery and prior to discharging any flammable or combustible liquids into underground tanks, the driver, operator or attendant of the tank vehicle shall ensure that all hoses utilized for liquid delivery and vapor recovery, where required, will be protected from physi­cal damage by motor vehicles. Such protection shall be provided by positioning the tank vehicle to prevent motor vehicles from passing through the area or areas occupied by hoses, or by other approved equivalent means. 
5706.6.2 Parking. Parking of tank vehicles shall be in accordance with Sections 5706.6.2.1 through 5706.6.2.3. 
Exception: In cases of accident, breakdown or other emergencies, tank vehicles are allowed to be parked and left unattended at any location while the operator is obtaining assistance. 
5706.6.2.1 Parking near residential, educational and institutional occupancies and other high-risk areas. Tank vehicles shall not be left unattended at any time on residential streets, or within 500 feet (152 m) of a residential area, apartment or hotel complex, educa­tional facility, hospital or care facility. Tank vehicles shall not be left unattended at any other place that would, in the opinion of the fire chief, pose an extreme life hazard. 
5706.6.2.2 Parking on thoroughfares. Tank vehicles shall not be left unattended on a public street, highway, public avenue or public alley. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	The necessary absence in connection with loading or unloading the vehicle. During actual fuel transfer, Section 5706.6.1.2 shall apply. The vehicle location shall be in accor­dance with Section 5706.6.2.1. 
2. 	Stops for meals during the day or night, where the street is well lighted at the point of park­ing. The vehicle location shall be in accor­dance with Section 5706.6.2.1. 
5706.6.2.3 Duration exceeding 1 hour. Tank vehicles parked at one point for longer than 1 hour shall be located off of public streets, highways, public avenues or alleys, and: 
1. 	
Inside of a bulk plant and either 25 feet (7620 mm) or more from the nearest lot line or within a building approved for such use; or 

2. 	
At other approved locations not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from the buildings other than those approved for the storage or servicing of such vehicles. 


5706.6.3 Garaging. Tank vehicles shall not be parked or garaged in buildings other than those specifically approved for such use by the fire code official. 
5706.6.4 Portable fire extinguisher. Tank vehicles shall be equipped with a portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 and having a minimum rating of 2-A:20­
B:C. 
During unloading of the tank vehicle, the portable fire extinguisher shall be out of the carrying device on the vehicle and shall be 15 feet (4572 mm) or more from the unloading valves. 

5706.7 Refineries. Plants and portions of plants in which flammable liquids are produced on a scale from crude petro­leum, natural gasoline or other hydrocarbon sources shall be in accordance with Sections 5706.7.1 through 5706.7.3. Petroleum-processing plants and facilities or portions of plants or facilities in which flammable or combustible liquids are handled, treated or produced on a commercial scale from crude petroleum, natural gasoline, or other hydrocarbon sources shall also be in accordance with API 651, API 653, API 752, API 1615, API 2001, API 2003, API 2009, API 2015, API 2023, API 2201 and API 2350. 
5706.7.1 Corrosion protection. Above-ground tanks and piping systems shall be protected against corrosion in accordance with API 651. 
5706.7.2 Cleaning of tanks. The safe entry and cleaning of petroleum storage tanks shall be conducted in accor­dance with API 20 15. 
5706.7.3 Storage of heated petroleum products. Where petroleum-derived asphalts and residues are stored in 
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS 
heated tanks at refineries and bulk storage facilities or in tank vehicles, such products shall be in accordance with API 2023. 

5706.8 Vapor recovery and vapor-processing systems. Vapor-processing systems in which the vapor source operates at pressures from vacuum, up to and including 1 psig (6.9 kPa) or in which a potential exists for vapor mixtures in the flammable range, shall comply with Sections 5706.8.1 through 5706.8.5. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Marine systems complying with federal transporta­tion waterway regulations such as DOTn 33 CFR Parts 154 through 156, and CGR 46 CFR Parts 30, 32, 35 and 39. 

2. 	
Motor fuel-dispensing facility systems complying with Chapter 23. 


5706.8.1 Over-pressure/vacuum protection. Tanks and equipment shall have independent venting for over-pres­sure or vacuum conditions that might occur from malfunc­tion of the vapor recovery or processing system. 
Exception: For tanks, venting shall comply with Sec­tion 5704.2.7.3. 
5706.8.2 Vent location. Vents on vapor-processing equip­ment shall be not less than 12 feet (3658 mm) from adja­cent ground level, with outlets located and directed so that flammable vapors will disperse to below the lower flam­mable limit (LFL) before reaching locations containing potential ignition sources. 
5706.8.3 Vapor collection systems and overfill protec­tion. The design and operation of the vapor collection sys­tem and overfill protection shall be in accordance with this section and Section 19.5 ofNFPA 30. 
5706.8.4 Liquid-level monitoring. A liquid knock-out vessel used in the vapor collection system shall have means to verify the liquid level and a high-liquid-level sensor that activates an alarm. For unpopulated facilities, the high-liquid-level sensor shall initiate the shutdown of liquid transfer into the vessel and shutdown of vapor recovery or vapor-processing systems. 
5706.8.5 Overfill protection. Storage tanks served by vapor recovery or processing systems shall be equipped with overfill protection in accordance with Section 5704.2.7.5.8. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 58-FLAMMABLE GASES AND FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DivisiOn I provlSlons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 58 
FLAMMABLE GASES AND FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
SECTION 5801 SECTION 5803 GENERAL GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
5801.1 Scope. The storage and use of flammable gases and 5803.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable flammable cryogenic fluids shall be in accordance with this quantity per control area. The storage and use of flammable chapter and NFPA 55. Compressed gases shall also comply gases in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable with Chapter 53 and cryogenic fluids shall also comply with quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be Chapter 55. Flammable cryogenic fluids shall comply with in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5801 and 5803. 
Section 5806. Hydrogen motor fuel-dispensing stations and 
repair garages and their associated above-ground hydrogen 5803.1.1 Special limitations for indoor storage and use. 
storage systems shall also be designed and constructed in Flammable gases shall not be stored or used in Group A, 

accordance with Chapter 23. 	E, I or R occupancies or in offices in Group B occupan­cies.
Exceptions: 
Exceptions:

1. 	Gases used as refrigerants in refrigeration systems 
(see Section 606). 

1. 	Cylinders of nonliquefied compressed gases not 

2. 	
Liquefied petroleum gases and natural gases regu­exceeding a capacity of 250 cubic feet (7.08 m3) 

lated by Chapter 61. or liquefied gases not exceeding a capacity of 40 pounds ( 18 kg) each at normal temperature and 

3. 	
Fuel-gas systems and appliances regulated under the 



pressure (NTP) used for maintenance purposes, 
California Mechanical Code or the California 
patient care or operation of equipment. 
Plumbing Code other than gaseous hydrogen sys­
tems and appliances. 

2. 	Food service operations in accordance with Sec­

4. 	Pyrophoric gases in accordance with Chapter 64. tion 6103.2.1.7. 
5801.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­5803.1.1.1 Medical gases. Medical gas system supply tion 105.6. cylinders shall be located in medical gas storage rooms or gas cabinets as set forth in Section 5306. 
SECTION 5802 
5803.1.1.2 Aggregate quantity. The aggregate quanti­
DEFINITIONS 

ties of flammable gases used for maintenance purposes 5802.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­and operation of equipment shall not exceed the maxi­ter 2: mum allowable quantity per control area indicated in 
• 	Table 5003.1.1(1).
FLAMMABLE GAS. 5803.1.2 Storage containers. Cylinders and pressure ves­
FLAMMABLE LIQUEFIED GAS. 
sels for flammable gases shall be designed, constructed, METAL HYDRIDE. 

installed, tested and maintained in accordance with Chap­METAL HYDRIDE STORAGE SYSTEM. ter 53. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5803.1.3 Emergency shutoff. Compressed gas systems conveying flammable gases shall be provided with approved manual or automatic emergency shutoff valves that can be activated at each point of use and at each source. 
5803.1.3.1 Shutoff at source. A manual or automatic fail-safe emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on supply piping at the cylinder or bulk source. Manual or automatic cylinder valves are allowed to be used as the required emergency shutoff valve when the source of supply is limited to unmanifolded cylinder sources. 
5803.1.3.2 Shutoff at point of use. A manual or auto­matic emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on the supply piping at the point of use or at a point where the equipment using the gas is connected to the supply sys­tem. 
5803.1.4 Ignition source control. Ignition sources in areas containing flammable gases in storage or in use shall be controlled in accordance with Section 5003.7. 
Exception: Fuel gas systems connected to building ser­vice utilities in accordance with the California Mechanical Code. 
5803.1.4.1 Static-producing equipment. Static-pro­ducing equipment located in flammable gas storage areas shall be grounded. 
5803.1.4.2 Signs. "No Smoking" signs shall be posted at entrances to rooms and in areas containing flamma­ble gases in accordance with Section 5003.7.1. 
5803.1.5 Electrical. Electrical wiring and equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with Section 605 and the California Electrical Code. 
5803.1.5.1 Bonding of electrically conductive mate­rials and equipment. Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts, including metal gas piping systems, that are part of flammable gas supply systems located in a hazardous (electrically classified) location shall be bonded to a grounded conductor in accordance with the provisions of the California Electrical Code. 
5803.1.5.2 Static-producing equipment. Static-pro­ducing equipment located in flammable gas storage or use areas shall be grounded. 
5803.1.6 Liquefied flammable gases and flammable gases in solution. Containers of liquefied flammable gases and flammable gases in solution shall be positioned in the upright position or positioned so that the pressure relief valve is in direct contact with the vapor space of the container. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Containers of flammable gases in solution with a capacity of 1.3 gallons (5 L) or less. 

2. 	
Containers of flammable liquefied gases, with a capacity not exceeding 1.3 gallons (5 L), designed to preclude the discharge of liquid from safety relief devices. 


5803.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of flammable gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accor­dance with Chapter 50 and this chapter. 
SECTION 5804 STORAGE 

5804.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of flammable gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per con­trol area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1), shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004, and this chapter. 
5804.1.1 Explosion control. Buildings or portions thereof containing flammable gases shall be provided with explo­sion control in accordance with Section 911. 
5804.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of flammable gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(3), shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004, and this chapter. 
• 
SECTION 5805 USE 

5805.1 General. The use of flammable gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3), shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5005, and this chapter. 
SECTION 5806 FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

5806.1 General. The storage and use of flammable cryogenic fluids shall be in accordance with Sections 5806.2 through 5806.4.8.3 and Chapter 55. 
5806.2 Limitations. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited within the limits established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage is prohibited (see Section 3 of the Sample Legislation for Adoption of the California Fire Code on page xxi). 
5806.3 Above-ground tanks for liquid hydrogen. Above­ground tanks for the storage of liquid hydrogen shall be in accordance with Sections 5806.3 through 5806.3.2.1. 
5806.3.1 Construction of the inner vessel. The inner ves­sel of storage tanks in liquid hydrogen service shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section VIII, Division 1, of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and shall be vacuum jacketed in accordance with Section 5806.3.2. 
5806.3.2 Construction of the vacuum jacket (outer ves­sel). The vacuum jacket used as an outer vessel for storage tanks in liquid hydrogen service shall be of welded steel construction designed to withstand the maximum internal and external pressure to which it will be subjected under operating conditions to include conditions of emergency pressure relief of the annular space between the inner and 
FLAMMABLE GASES AND FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
outer vessel. The jacket shall be designed to withstand a minimum collapsing pressure differential of 30 psi (207 kPa). 
5806.3.2.1 Vacuum-level monitoring. A connection shall be provided on the exterior of the vacuum jacket to allow measurement of the pressure within the annu­lar space between the inner and outer vessel. The con­nection shall be fitted with a bellows-sealed or diaphragm-type valve equipped with a vacuum gauge tube that is shielded to protect against damage from impact. 

5806.4 Underground tanks for liquid hydrogen. Under­
ground tanks for the storage of liquid hydrogen shall be in 
accordance with Sections 5806.4.1 through 5806.4.8.3. 
5806.4.1 Construction. Storage tanks for liquid hydrogen shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (Section VIII, Division 1) and shall be vacuum jacketed in accordance with Section 5806.4.8. 
5806.4.2 Location. Storage tanks shall be located outside in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Tanks and associated equipment shall be located with respect to foundations and supports of other structures such that the loads carried by the latter cannot be transmitted to the tank. 

2. 	
The distance from any part of the tank to the nearest wall of a basement, pit, cellar or lot line shall not be less than 3 feet (914 mm). 

3. 	
A minimum distance of 1 foot (305 mm), shell to shell, shall be maintained between underground tanks. 


5806.4.3 Depth, cover and fill. The tank shall be buried such that the top of the vacuum jacket is covered with a minimum of 1 foot (305 mm) of earth and with concrete a minimum of 4 inches (102 mm) thick placed over the earthen cover. The concrete shall extend a minimum of 1 foot (305 mm) horizontally beyond the footprint of the tank in all directions. Underground tanks shall be set on firm foundations constructed in accordance with the Cali­fornia Building Code and surrounded with at least 6 inches (152 mm) of noncorrosive inert material, such as sand. 
Exception: The vertical extension of the vacuum jacket 
as required for service connections. 5806.4.4 Anchorage and security. Tanks and systems shall be secured against accidental dislodgement in accor­dance with this chapter. 
5806.4.5 Venting of underground tanks. Vent pipes for underground storage tanks shall be in accordance with Section 5503.3. 
5806.4.6 Underground liquid hydrogen piping. Under­ground liquid hydrogen piping shall be vacuum jacketed or protected by approved means and designed in accor­dance with Chapter 55. 
5806.4.7 Overfill protection and prevention systems. An approved means or method shall be provided to pre­vent the overfill of all storage tanks. 

5806.4.8 Vacuum jacket construction. The vacuum jacket shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section VIII of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and shall be designed to withstand the anticipated loading, including loading from vehicular traffic, where applicable. Portions of the vacuum jacket installed below grade shall be designed to withstand anticipated soil, seis­mic and hydrostatic loading. 
5806.4.8.1 Material. The vacuum jacket shall be con­structed of stainless steel or other approved corrosion­resistant material. 
5806.4.8.2 Corrosion protection. The vacuum jacket shall be protected by approved or listed corrosion-resis­tant materials or an engineered cathodic protection sys­tem. Where cathodic protection is utilized, an approved maintenance schedule shall be established. Exposed components shall be inspected at least twice a year. Maintenance and inspection events shall be recorded and those records shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of three years and made available to the fire code official upon request. 
5806.4.8.3 Vacuum-level monitoring. An approved method shall be provided to indicate loss of vacuum within the vacuumjacket(s). 
SECTION 5807 
METAL HYDRIDE STORAGE SYSTEMS 


5807.1 General requirements. The storage and use of metal hydride storage systems shall be in accordance with Sections 5801, 5803, 5804, 5805 and 5807. Those portions of the sys­tem that are used as a means to store or supply hydrogen shall also comply with Chapters 50 and 53 as applicable. 
5807.1.1 Classification. The hazard classification of the metal hydride storage system, as required by Section 5001.2.2, shall be based on the hydrogen stored without regard to the metal hydride content. 
5807.1.2 Listed or approved systems. Metal hydride storage systems shall be listed or approved for the applica­tion and designed in a manner that prevents the addition or removal of the metal hydride by other than the original equipment manufacturer. 
5807.1.3 Containers, design and construction. Com­pressed gas containers, cylinders and tanks shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section 5303.2. 
5807.1.4 Service life and inspection of containers. Metal hydride storage system cylinders, containers or tanks shall be inspected, tested and requalified for service at not less than five-year intervals. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5807.1.5 Marking and labeling. Marking and labeling of cylinders, containers, tanks and systems shall be in accor­dance with Section 5303.4 and Sections 5807.1.5.1 through 5807.1.5.4. 
5807.1.5.1 System marking. Metal hydride storage systems shall be marked with the following. 
1. 	
Manufacturer's name; 

2. 	
Service life indicating the last date the system can be used; 

3. 	
A unique code or serial number specific to the unit; 

4. 	
System name or product code that identifies the system by the type of chemistry used in the sys­tem; 

5. 
Emergency contact name, telephone number or other contact information; and 

6. 	
Limitations on refilling of containers to include rated charging pressure and capacity. 



5807.1.5.2 Valve marking. Metal hydride storage sys­tem valves shall be marked with the following: 
1. 	
Manufacturer's name; 

2. 
Service life indicating the last date the valve can be used; and 

3. 	
Metal hydride service in which the valve can be used, or a product code that is traceable to this information. 



5807.1.5.3 Pressure relief device marking. Metal hydride storage system pressure relief devices shall be marked with the following: 
1. 	
Manufacturer's name; 

2. 	
Metal hydride service in which the device can be used, or a product code that is traceable to this information; and 

3. 	
Activation parameters to include temperature, pressure or both. 


5807.1.5.3.1 Pressure relief devices integral to container valves. The required markings for pres­sure relief devices that are integral components of valves used on cylinders, containers and tanks shall be allowed to be placed on the valve. 

5807.1.5.4 Pressure vessel markings. Cylinders, con­tainers and tanks used in metal hydride storage systems shall be marked with the following: 
1. 	
Manufacturer's name; 

2. 	
Design specification to which the vessel was manufactured; 

3. 	
Authorized body approving the design and initial inspection and test of the vessel; 

4. 	
Manufacturer's original test date; 

5. 	
Unique serial number for the vessel; 



6. 	
Service life identifying the last date the vessel can be used; and 

7. 	
System name or product code that identifies the system by the type of chemistry used in the sys­tem. 


5807.1.6 Temperature extremes. Metal hydride storage systems, whether full or partially full, shall not be exposed to artificially created high temperatures exceeding l25°F (52°C) or subambient (low) temperatures unless designed for use under the exposed conditions. 
5807.1.7 Falling objects. Metal hydride storage systems shall not be placed in areas where they are capable of being damaged by falling objects. 
5807.1.8 Piping systems. Piping, including tubing, valves, fittings and pressure regulators, serving metal hydride storage systems, shall be maintained gas tight to prevent leakage. 
5807.1.8.1 Leaking systems. Leaking systems shall be 
removed from service. 5807.1.9 Refilling of containers. The refilling of listed or approved metal hydride storage systems shall be in accor­dance with the listing requirements and manufacturer's instructions. 
5807.1.9.1 Industrial trucks. The refilling of metal hydride storage systems serving powered industrial trucks shall be in accordance with Section 309. 
5807.1.9.2 Hydrogen purity. The purity of hydrogen used for the purpose of refilling containers shall be in accordance with the listing and the manufacturer's instructions. 
5807.1.10 Electrical. Electrical components for metal hydride storage systems shall be designed, constructed and installed in accordance with NFPA 70. 
5807.2 Portable containers or systems. Portable containers 
or 	systems shall comply with Sections 5807.2.1 through 
5807.2.2. 
5807.2.1 Securing containers. Containers, cylinders and tanks shall be secured in accordance with Section 5303.5.3. 
5807.2.1.1 Use on mobile equipment. Where a metal hydride storage system is used on mobile equipment, the equipment shall be designed to restrain containers, cylinders or tanks from dislodgement, slipping or rotat­ing when the equipment is in motion. 
5807.2.1.2 Motorized equipment. Metal hydride stor­age systems used on motorized equipment, shall be installed in a manner that protects valves, pressure reg­ulators, fittings and controls against accidental impact. 
5807.2.1.2.1 Protection from damage. Metal hydride storage systems, including cylinders, con­tainers, tanks and fittings, shall not extend beyond the platform of the mobile equipment. 
5807.2.2 Valves. Valves on containers, cylinders and tanks shall remain closed except when containers are con­nected to closed systems and ready for use. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 59-FLAMMABLE SOLIDS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 

See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISIOn I proviSions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 59 
FLAMMABLE SOLIDS 
SECTION 5901 
GENERAL 


5901.1 Scope. The storage and use of flammable solids shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
5901.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 5902 
DEFINITIONS 


5902.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
FLAMMABLE SOLID. 
MAGNESIUM. 
SECTION 5903 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


5903.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of flammable solids in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area as indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5901. 
5903.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of flammable solids exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area as indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chapter. 
SECTION 5904 
STORAGE 


5904.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of flammable solids in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
5904.1.1 Pile size limits and location. Flammable solids stored in quantities greater than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3) shall be separated into piles each not larger than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3). 
5904.1.2 Aisles. Aisle widths between piles shall not be less than the height of the piles or 4 feet (1219 mm), whichever is greater. 
5904.1.3 Basement storage. Flammable solids shall not be stored in basements. 

5904.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of flammable sol­ids in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. Outdoor storage of magnesium shall be in accordance with Section 5906. 
5904.2.1 Distance from storage to exposures. Outdoor storage of flammable solids shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a building, lot line, public street, public alley, public way or means of egress. A 2-hour fire barrier without openings or penetrations and extending 30 inches (762 mm) above and to the sides of the storage area is allowed in lieu of such distance. The wall shall either be an independent structure, or the exterior wall of the build­ing adjacent to the storage area. 
5904.2.2 Pile size limits. Outdoor storage of flammable solids shall be separated into piles not larger than 5,000 cubic feet (141 m3) each. Piles shall be separated by aisles with a minimum width of not less than one-half the pile height or 10 feet (3048 mm), whichever is greater. 
SECTION 5905 
USE 


5905.1 General. The use of flammable solids in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
indicated in Table 5003.1.1 (1) or 5003.1.1 (3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. The use of magnesium shall be in accordance with Section 5906. 
SECTION 5906 
MAGNESIUM 


5906.1 General. Storage, use, handling and processing of magnesium, including the pure metal and alloys of which the major part is magnesium, shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and Sections 5906.2 through 5906.5.8. 
5906.2 Storage of magnesium articles. The storage of mag­nesium shall comply with Sections 5906.2.1 through 5906.4.3. 
5906.2.1 Storage of greater than 50 cubic feet. Magne­sium storage in quantities greater than 50 cubic feet (1.4 m3) shall be separated from storage of other materials that are either combustible or in combustible containers by aisles. Piles shall be separated by aisles with a minimum width of not less than the pile height. 
5906.2.2 Storage of greater than 1,000 cubic feet. Mag­nesium storage in quantities greater than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3) shall be separated into piles not larger than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3) each. Piles shall be separated by aisles with a minimum width of not less than the pile height. Such storage shall not be located in nonsprinklered build­ings of Type III, IV or V construction, as defined in the 
California Building Code. 
5906.2.3 Storage in combustible containers or within 30 feet of other combustibles. Where in nonsprinklered buildings of Type III, IV or V construction, as defined in the California Building Code, magnesium shall not be stored in combustible containers or within 30 feet (9144 mm) of other combustibles. 
5906.2.4 Storage in foundries and processing plants. The size of storage piles of magnesium articles in found­ries and processing plants shall not exceed 1,250 cubic feet (25 m3). Piles shall be separated by aisles with a mini­mum width of not less than one-half the pile height. 
5906.3 Storage of pigs, ingots and billets. The storage of magnesium pigs, ingots and billets shall comply with Sec­tions 5906.3.1 and 5906.3.2. 
5906.3.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of pigs, ingots and billets shall only be on floors of noncombustible con­struction. Piles shall not be larger than 500,000 pounds 
(226.8 metric tons) each. Piles shall be separated by aisles with a minimum width of not less than one-half the pile height. 
5906.3.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of magne­sium pigs, ingots and billets shall be in piles not exceeding 1,000,000 pounds (453.6 metric tons) each. Piles shall be separated by aisles with a minimum width of not less than one-half the pile height. Piles shall be separated from com­bustible materials or buildings on the same or adjoining property by a distance of not less than the height of the nearest pile. 
5906.4 Storage of fine magnesium scrap. The storage of scrap magnesium shall comply with Sections 5906.4.1 through 5906.4.3. 
5906.4.1 Separation. Magnesium fines shall be kept sepa­rate from other combustible materials. 
5906.4.2 Storage of 50 to 1,000 cubic feet. Storage of fine magnesium scrap in quantities greater than 50 cubic feet (1.4 m3) [six 55-gallon (208 L) steel drums] shall be separated from other occupancies by an open space of at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) or by a fire barrier constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code. 
5906.4.3 Storage of greater than 1,000 cubic feet. Stor­age of fine magnesium scrap in quantities greater than 1,000 cubic feet (28 m3) shall be separated from all build­ings other than those used for magnesium scrap recovery operations by a distance of not less than 100 feet (30 480 mm). 
5906.5 Use of magnesium. The use of magnesium shall com­ply with Sections 5906.5.1 through 5906.5.8. 
5906.5.1 Melting pots. Floors under and around melting pots shall be of noncombustible construction. 
5906.5.2 Heat-treating ovens. Approved means shall be provided for control of magnesium fires in heat-treating ovens. 
5906.5.3 Dust collection. Magnesium grinding, buffing and wire-brushing operations, other than rough finishing of castings, shall be provided with approved hoods or enclosures for dust collection which are connected to a liq­uid-precipitation type of separator that converts dust to sludge without contact (in a dry state) with any high-speed moving parts. 
5906.5.3.1 Duct construction. Connecting ducts or suction tubes shall be completely grounded, as short as possible, and without bends. Ducts shall be fabricated and assembled with a smooth interior, with internal lap joints pointing in the direction of airflow and without unused capped side outlets, pockets or other dead-end spaces which allow an accumulation of dust. 
5906.5.3.2 Independent dust separators. Each machine shall be equipped with an individual dust-sep­arating unit. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
One separator is allowed to serve two dust­producing units on multiunit machines. 

2. 
One separator is allowed to 	serve not more than four portable dust-producing units in a single enclosure or stand. 



5906.5.4 Power supply interlock. Power supply to machines shall be interlocked with exhaust airflow, and liquid pressure level or flow. The interlock shall be designed to shut down the machine it serves when the dust removal or separator system is not operating properly. 
5906.5.5 Electrical equipment. Electric wiring, fixtures and equipment in the immediate vicinity of and attached to 
FLAMMABLE SOLIDS 
dust-producing machines, including those used in connec­tion with separator equipment, shall be of approved types and shall be approved for use in Class II, Division 1 haz­ardous locations in accordance with California Electrical Code. 
5906.5.6 Grounding. Equipment shall be securely grounded by permanent ground wires in accordance with 
California Electrical Code. 
5906.5.7 Fire-extinguishing materials. Fire-extinguish­ing materials shall be provided for every operator perform­ing machining, grinding or other processing operation on magnesium as follows: 
1. 	
Within 30 feet (9144 mm), a supply of extinguishing materials in an approved container with a hand scoop or shovel for applying the material; or 

2. 	
Within 75 feet (22 860 mm), a portable fire extin­guisher complying with Section 906. 


All extinguishing materials shall be approved for use on magnesium fires. Where extinguishing materials are stored in cabinets or other enclosed areas, the enclosures shall be openable without the use of a key or special knowledge. 
5906.5.8 Collection of chips, turnings and fines. Chips, turnings and other fine magnesium scrap shall be collected from the pans or spaces under machines and from other places where they collect at least once each working day. Such material shall be placed in a covered, vented steel container and removed to an approved location. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 60-HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulattons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisiOns that are found In the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 60 
HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS 
SECTION 6001 
GENERAL 


6001.1 Scope. The storage and use of highly toxic and toxic materials shall comply with this chapter. Compressed gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Display and storage in Group M and storage in Group S occupancies complying with Section 5003.11. 

2. 	
Conditions involving pesticides or agricultural prod­ucts as follows: 


2.1. Application and release of pesticide, agricul­tural products and materials intended for use in weed abatement, erosion control, soil amend­ment or similar applications when applied in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction and label directions. 
2.2. Transportation 	of pesticides in compliance with the Federal Hazardous Materials Trans­portation Act and regulations thereunder. 
2.3. Storage in dwellings or private garages of pes­ticides registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to be utilized in and around the home, garden, pool, spa and patio. 

6001.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6002 
DEFINITIONS 


6002.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
CONTAINMENT SYSTEM. 
CONTAINMENT VESSEL. 
EXCESS FLOW VALVE. 
HIGHLY TOXIC. 
OZONE-GAS GENERATOR. 
PHYSIOLOGICAL WARNING THRESHOLD LEVEL. 
REDUCED FLOW VALVE. 
TOXIC. 
SECTION 6003 
HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS 

6003.1 Indoor storage and use. The indoor storage and use 
of highly toxic and toxic materials shall comply with Sections 
6003.1.1 through 6003.1.5.3. 
6003.1.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area. The indoor storage or use of highly toxic and toxic solids or liquids in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 (2) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 6001. 
6003.1.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The indoor storage or use of highly toxic and toxic solids or liquids in amounts exceed­ing the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1(2) shall be in accordance with Sec­tion 6001, Sections 6003.1.3 through 6003.1.5.3 and Chapter 50. 
6003.1.3 Treatment system-highly toxic liquids. Exhaust scrubbers or other systems for processing vapors of highly toxic liquids shall be provided where a spill or accidental release of such liquids can be expected to release highly toxic vapors at normal temperature and pressure. Treatment systems and other processing systems 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
shall be installed in accordance with the California 
Mechanical Code. 
6003.1.4 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of highly toxic and toxic solids and liquids shall comply with Sections 6003.1.4.1 and 6003.1.4.2. 
6003.1.4.1 Floors. In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 5004.12, floors of storage areas shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6003.1.4.2 Separation-highly toxic solids and liq­uids. In addition to the requirements set forth in Sec­tion 5003.9.8, highly toxic solids and liquids in storage shall be located in approved hazardous material storage cabinets or isolated from other hazardous material stor­age by construction in accordance with the California Building Code. 
6003.1.5 Indoor use. Indoor use of highly toxic and toxic solids and liquids shall comply with Sections 6003.1.5 .1 through 6003.1.5.3. 
6003.1.5.1 Liquid transfer. Highly toxic and toxic liq­uids shall be transferred in accordance with Section 5005.1.10. 
6003.1.5.2 Exhaust ventilation for open systems. Mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided for highly toxic and toxic liquids used in open systems in accordance with Section 5005.2.1.1. 
Exception: Liquids or solids that do not generate 
highly toxic or toxic fumes, mists or vapors. 

6003.1.5.3 Exhaust ventilation for closed systems. Mechanical exhaust ventilation shall be provided for highly toxic and toxic liquids used in closed systems in accordance with Section 5005.2.2.1. 
Exception: Liquids or solids that do not generate 
highly toxic or toxic fumes, mists or vapors. 

6003.2 Outdoor storage and use. Outdoor storage and use 
of highly toxic and toxic materials shall comply with Sections 
6003.2.1 through 6003.2.6. 
6003.2.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area. The outdoor storage or use of highly toxic and toxic solids or liquids in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per con­trol area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(4) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 6001. 
6003.2.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The outdoor storage or use of . highly toxic and toxic solids or liquids in amounts exceed­ing the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1 ( 4) shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 6001 and 6003.2 and Chapter 50. 
6003.2.3 General outdoor requirements. The general requirements applicable to the outdoor storage of highly toxic or toxic solids and liquids shall be in accordance with Sections 6003.2.3.1 and 6003.2.3.2. 
6003.2.3.1 Location. Outdoor storage or use of highly toxic or toxic solids and liquids shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways, exit discharges or exterior wall openings. A 2-hour fire barrier without openings or penetrations extending not less than 30 inches (762 mm) above and to the sides of the storage is allowed in lieu of such distance. The wall shall either be an inde­pendent structure, or the exterior wall of the building adjacent to the storage area. 
6003.2.3.2 Treatment system-highly toxic liquids. Exhaust scrubbers or other systems for processing vapors of highly toxic liquid shall be provided where a spill or accidental release of such liquids can be expected to release highly toxic vapors at normal tem­perature and pressure (NTP). Treatment systems and other processing systems shall be installed in accor­dance with the California Mechanical Code. 
6003.2.4 Outdoor storage piles. Outdoor storage piles of highly toxic and toxic solids and liquids shall be separated into piles not larger than 2,500 cubic feet (71 m3). Aisle widths between piles shall not be less than one-half the height of the pile or 10 feet (3048 mm), whichever is greater. 
6003.2.5 Weather protection for highly toxic liquids and solids-outdoor storage or use. Where overhead weather protection is provided for outdoor storage or use of highly toxic liquids or solids, and the weather protec­tion is attached to a building, the storage or use area shall either be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, or storage or use vessels shall be fire resistive. Weather pro­tection shall be provided in accordance with Section 5004.13 for storage and Section 5005.3.9 for use. 
6003.2.6 Outdoor liquid transfer. Highly toxic and toxic liquids shall be transferred in accordance with Section 5005.1.10. 
SECTION 6004 HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC COMPRESSED GASES 
6004.1 General. The storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall comply with this section. 
6004.1.1 Special limitations for indoor storage and use by occupancy. The indoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases in certain occupancies shall be subject to the limitations contained in Sections 6004.1.1.1 through 6004.1.1.3. 
6004.1.1.1 Group A, E, I or U occupancies. Toxic and highly toxic compressed gases shall not be stored or used within Group A, E, I or U occupancies. 
Exception: Cylinders not exceeding 20 cubic feet 
(0.566 m3) at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) are allowed within gas cabinets or fume hoods. 
6004.1.1.2 Group R occupancies. Toxic and highly toxic compressed gases shall not be stored or used in Group R occupancies. 
6004.1.1.3 Offices, retail sales and classrooms. Toxic and highly toxic compressed gases shall not be stored or used in offices, retail sales or classroom portions of Group B, F, M or S occupancies. 
Exception: In classrooms of Group B occupancies, cylinders with a capacity not exceeding 20 cubic feet (0.566 m3) at NTP are allowed in gas cabinets or fume hoods. 
6004.1.2 Gas cabinets. Gas cabinets containing highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall comply with Section 5003.8.6 and the following requirements: 
1. 	
The average ventilation velocity at the face of gas cabinet access ports or windows shall not be less than 200 feet per minute (1.02 m/s) with a minimum of 150 feet per minute (0.76 m/s) at any point of the access port or window. 

2. 	
Gas cabinets shall be connected to an exhaust sys­tem. 

3. 	
Gas cabinets shall not be used as the sole means of exhaust for any room or area. 

4. 	
The maximum number of cylinders located in a sin­gle gas cabinet shall not exceed three, except that cabinets containing cylinders not exceeding 1 pound 


(0.454 kg) net contents are allowed to contain up to 100 cylinders. 
5. 	Gas cabinets required by Section 6004.2 or 6004.3 shall be equipped with an approved automatic sprin­kler system in accordance with Section 903.3 .1.1. Alternative fire-extinguishing systems shall not be used. 
6004.1.3 Exhausted enclosures. Exhausted enclosures containing highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall comply with Section 5003.8.5 and the following require­ments: 
1. 	The average ventilation velocity at the face of the enclosure shall not be less than 200 feet per minute 
(1.02 m/s) with a minimum of 150 feet per minute 
(0.76 m/s). 
2. 	
Exhausted enclosures shall be connected to an exhaust system. 

3. 	
Exhausted enclosures shall not be used as the sole means of exhaust for any room or area. 

4. 	
Exhausted enclosures required by Section 6004.2 or 6004.3 shall be equipped with an approved auto­matic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 


903.3.1.1. Alternative fire-extinguishing systems shall not be used. 

6004.2 Indoor storage and use. The indoor storage and use of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall be in accor­dance with Sections 6004.2.1 through 6004.2.2.10.3. 
6004.2.1 Applicability. The applicability of regulations governing the indoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall be as set forth in Sections 6004.2.1.1 through 6004.2.1.3. 
6004.2.1.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The indoor stor­age or use of highly toxic and toxic gases in amounts 
HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS 
not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1(2) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001,5003,6001 and 6004.1. 
6004.2.1.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The indoor stor­age or use of highly toxic and toxic gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1(2) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 6001, 6004.1, 6004.2 and Chapter 
50. 
6004.2.1.3 Ozone gas generators. The indoor use of ozone gas-generating equipment shall be in accordance with Section 6005. 

6004.2.2 General indoor requirements. The general requirements applicable to the indoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall be in accor­dance with Sections 6004.2.2.1 through 6004.2.2.10.3. 
6004.2.2.1 Cylinder and tank location. Cylinders shall be located within gas cabinets, exhausted enclo­sures or gas rooms. Portable and stationary tanks shall be located within gas rooms or exhausted enclosures. 
6004.2.2.2 Ventilated areas. The room or area in which gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures are located shall be provided with exhaust ventilation. Gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures shall not be used as the sole means of exhaust for any room or area. 
6004.2.2.3 Leaking cylinders and tanks. One or more gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures shall be provided to handle leaking cylinders, containers or tanks. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where cylinders, containers or tanks are located within gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures. 

2. 	
Where approved containment vessels or con­tainment systems are provided in accordance with all of the following: 


2.1. Containment vessels or containment systems shall be capable of fully containing or terminating a release. 
2.2. Trained personnel shall be available at an approved location. 
2.3. Containment vessels or containment systems shall be capable of being transported to the leaking cylinder, container or tank. 
6004.2.2.3.1 Location. Gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures shall be located in gas rooms and con­nected to an exhaust system. 
6004.2.2.4 Local exhaust for portable tanks. A means of local exhaust shall be provided to capture leaks from portable tanks. The local exhaust shall con­sist of portable ducts or collection systems designed to be applied to the site of a leak in a valve or fitting on the tank. The local exhaust system shall be located in a 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
gas room. Exhaust shall be directed to a treatment sys­tem in accordance with Section 6004.2.2. 7. 
6004.2.2.5 Piping and controls-stationary tanks. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.2.2, piping and controls on stationary tanks shall comply with the following requirements: 
1. 	Pressure relief devices shall be vented to a treat­ment system designed in accordance with Section 6004.2.2.7. 
Exception: Pressure relief devices on outdoor tanks provided exclusively for relieving pres­sure due to fire exposure are not required to be vented to a treatment system provided that: 
1. 	
The material in the tank is not flam­mable. 

2. 	
The tank is not located in a diked area with other tanks containing combustible materials. 

3. 
The tank is located not less than 30 feet (9144 mm) from combustible materials or structures or is shielded by a fire barrier complying with Section 6004.3.2.1.1. 


2. 	
Filling or dispensing connections shall be pro­vided with a means of local exhaust. Such exhaust shall be designed to capture fumes and vapors. The exhaust shall be directed to a treat­ment system in accordance with Section 6004.2.2.7. 

3. 
Stationary tanks shall be provided with a means of excess flow control on all tank inlet or outlet connections. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Inlet connections designed to prevent backflow. 

2. 	
Pressure relief devices. 



6004.2.2.6 Gas rooms. Gas rooms shall comply with Section 5003.8.4 and both of the following require­ments: 
1. 	
The exhaust ventilation from gas rooms shall be directed to an exhaust system. 

2. 	
Gas rooms shall be equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system. Alternative fire­extinguishing systems shall not be used. 



6004.2.2.7 Treatment systems. The exhaust ventila­tion from gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures and gas rooms, and local exhaust systems required in Sections 6004.2.2.4 and 6004.2.2.5 shall be directed to a treat­ment system. The treatment system shall be utilized to handle the accidental release of gas and to process exhaust ventilation. The treatment system shall be designed in accordance with Sections 6004.2.2.7.1 
through 6004.2.2.7.5 and Chapter 5 of the California Mechanical Code. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	Highly toxic and toxic gases-storage. A treatment system is not required for cylinders, containers and tanks in storage when all of the following controls are provided: 
1.1. Valve outlets 	are equipped with gas­tight outlet plugs or caps. 
1.2. Handwheel-operated 	valves have handles secured to prevent movement. 
1.3. 
Approved 	containment vessels or containment systems are provided in accordance with Section 6004.2.2.3. 

2. 	
Toxic gases-use. Treatment systems are not required for toxic gases supplied by cylinders or portable tanks not exceeding 1,700 pounds (772 kg) water capacity when the following are provided: 


2.1. A 	listed or approved gas detection system with a sensing interval not exceeding 5 minutes. 
2.2. A listed or approved automatic-closing fail-safe valve located immediately adjacent to cylinder valves. The fail­safe valve shall close when gas is detected at the permissible exposure limit (PEL) by a gas detection system monitoring the exhaust system at the point of discharge from the gas cabinet, exhausted enclosure, vent­ilated enclosure or gas room. The gas detection system shall comply with Section 6004.2.2.1 0. 

6004.2.2.7.1 Design. Treatment systems shall be capable of diluting, adsorbing, absorbing, contain­ing, neutralizing, burning or otherwise processing the contents of the largest single vessel of com­pressed gas. Where a total containment system is used, the system shall be designed to handle the maximum anticipated pressure of release to the sys­tem when it reaches equilibrium. 
6004.2.2.7.2 Performance. Treatment systems shall be designed to reduce the maximum allowable dis­charge concentrations of the gas to one-half immedi­ate by dangerous to life and health (IDLH) at the point of discharge to the atmosphere. Where more than one gas is emitted to the treatment system, the treatment system shall be designed to handle the worst-case release based on the release rate, the quantity and the IDLH for all compressed gases stored or used. 
6004.2.2.7.3 Sizing. Treatment systems shall be sized to process the maximum worst-case release of 
HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS 
gas based on the maximum flow rate of release from the largest vessel utilized. The entire contents of the largest compressed gas vessel shall be considered. 
6004.2.2.7.4 Stationary tanks. Stationary tanks shall be labeled with the maximum rate of release for the compressed gas contained based on valves or fittings that are inserted directly into the tank. Where multiple valves or fittings are provided, the maxi­mum flow rate of release for valves or fittings with the highest flow rate shall be indicated. Where lique­fied compressed gases are in contact with valves or fittings, the liquid flow rate shall be utilized for computation purposes. Flow rates indicated on the label shall be converted to cubic feet per minute (cfm/min) (m3/s) of gas at normal temperature and pressure (NTP). 
6004.2.2.7.5 Portable tanks and cylinders. The maximum flow rate of release for portable tanks and cylinders shall be calculated based on the total release from the cylinder or tank within the time specified in Table 6004.2.2.7.5. When portable tanks or cylinders are equipped with approved excess flow or reduced flow valves, the worst-case release shall be determined by the maximum achiev­able flow from the valve as determined by the valve manufacturer or compressed gas supplier. Reduced flow and excess flow valves shall be permanently marked by the valve manufacturer to indicate the maximum design flow rate. Such markings shall indicate the flow rate for air under normal tempera­ture and pressure. 

TABLE 6004.2.2.7.5 RATE OF RELEASE FOR CYLINDERS AND PORTABLE TANKS 
VESSEL TYPE  NON LIQUEFIED (minutes)  LIQUEFIED (minutes)  
Containers  5  30  
Portable tanks  40  240  

6004.2.2.8 Emergency power. Emergency power in accordance with the Section 604 and the California Electrical Code shall be provided in lieu of standby power where any of the following systems are required: 
1. 	
Exhaust ventilation system. 

2. 	
Treatment system. 

3. 
Gas detection system. 

4. 
Smoke detection system. 

5. 
Temperature control system. 

6. 
Fire alarm system. 

7. 
Emergency alarm system. 


Exception: Emergency power is not required for mechanical exhaust ventilation, treatment systems and temperature control systems where approved fail-safe engineered systems are installed. 
6004.2.2.9 Automatic fire detection system-highly toxic compressed gases. An approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed in rooms or areas where highly toxic compressed gases are stored or used. Activation of the detection system shall sound a local alarm. The fire detection system shall comply with Section 907. 
6004.2.2.10 Gas detection system. A gas detection system shall be provided to detect the presence of gas at or below the PEL or ceiling limit of the gas for which detection is provided. The system shall be capable of monitoring the discharge from the treatment system at or below one-half the IDLH limit. 
Exception: A gas detection system is not required for toxic gases when the physiological warning threshold level for the gas is at a level below the accepted PEL for the gas. 
6004.2.2.10.1 Gas detection system components. Gas detection system control units shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 864 or UL 2017, or approved. Gas detectors shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 2075 for use with the gases and vapors being detected, or approved. 
6004.2.2.10.2 Alarms. The gas detection system shall initiate a local alarm and transmit a signal to a constantly attended control station when a short­term hazard condition is detected. The alarm shall be both visual and audible and shall provide warning both inside and outside the area where gas is detected. The audible alarm shall be distinct from all other alarms. 
Exception: Signal transmission to a constantly attended control station is not required where not more than one cylinder of highly toxic or toxic gas is stored. 
6004.2.2.10.3 Shut off of gas supply. The gas­detection system shall automatically close the shut­off valve at the source on gas supply piping and tub­ing related to the system being monitored for whichever gas is detected. 
Exception: Automatic shutdown is not required for reactors utilized for the production of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases where such reac­tors are: 
1. 	
Operated at pressures less than 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) (103.4 kPa). 

2. 	
Constantly attended. 

3. 	
Provided with readily accessible emer­gency shutoff valves. 


6004.2.2.10.4 Valve closure. Automatic closure of shutoff valves shall be in accordance with the fol­lowing: 
1. 	
When the gas-detection sampling point initiat­ing the gas detection system alarm is within a gas cabinet or exhausted enclosure, the shutoff valve in the gas cabinet or exhausted enclo­sure for the specific gas detected shall auto­matically close. 

2. 	
Where the gas-detection sampling point initi­ating the gas detection system alarm is within 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
a gas room and compressed gas containers are not in gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures, the shutoff valves on all gas lines for the spe­cific gas detected shall automatically close. 
3. 	Where the gas-detection sampling point initi­ating the gas detection system alarm is within a piping distribution manifold enclosure, the shutoff valve for the compressed container of specific gas detected supplying the manifold shall automatically close. 
Exception: When the gas-detection sampling point initiating the gas-detection system alarm is at a use location or within a gas valve enclosure of a branch line downstream of a piping distribu­tion manifold, the shutoff valve in the gas valve enclosure for the branch line located in the piping distribution manifold enclosure shall automati­cally close. 

6004.3 Outdoor storage and use. The outdoor storage and 
use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall be in 
accordance with Sections 6004.3.1 through 6004.3.4. 
6004.3.1 Applicability. The applicability of regulations governing the outdoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall be as set forth in Sections 6004.3.1.1 through 6004.3.1.3. 
6004.3.1.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The outdoor storage or use of highly toxic and toxic gases in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quan­tity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1(4) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 6001. 
6004.3.1.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The outdoor storage or use of highly toxic and toxic gases in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1(4) shall be in accordance with Sections 6001 and 6004.3 and Chapter 50. 
6004.3.1.3 Ozone gas generators. The outdoor use of ozone gas-generating equipment shall be in accordance with Section 6005. 
6004.3.2 General outdoor requirements. The general requirements applicable to the outdoor storage and use of highly toxic and toxic compressed gases shall be in accor­dance with Sections 6004.3.2.1 through 6004.3.2.4. 
6004.3.2.1 Location. Outdoor storage or use of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall be located in accordance with Sections 6004.3.2.1.1 through 6004.3.2.1.3. 
Exception: Compressed gases located in gas cabi­nets complying with Sections 5003.8.6 and 6004.1.2 and located 5 feet (1524 mm) or more from build­ings and 25 feet (7620 mm) or more from an exit discharge. 
6004.3.2.1.1 Distance limitation to exposures. Outdoor storage or use of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases shall not be located within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of a lot line, public street, public alley, public way, exit discharge or building not associated with the manufacture or distribution of such gases, unless all of the following conditions are met: 

1. 	
Storage is shielded by a 2-hour fire barrier which interrupts the line of sight between the storage and the exposure. 

2. 	
The 2-hour fire barrier shall be located at least 5 feet (1524 mm) from any exposure. 

3. 	
The 2-hour fire barrier shall not have more than two sides at approximately 90-degree 


(1.57 rad) directions, or three sides with con­necting angles of approximately 135 degrees 
(2.36 rad). 

6004.3.2.1.2 Openings in exposed buildings. Where the storage or use area is located closer than 75 feet (22 860 mm) to a building not associated with the manufacture or distribution of highly toxic or toxic compressed gases, openings into a building other than for piping are not allowed above the height of the top of the 2-hour fire barrier or within 50 feet (15 240 mm) horizontally from the storage area whether or not shielded by a fire barrier. 
6004.3.2.1.3 Air intakes. The storage or use area shall not be located within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of air intakes. 
6004.3.2.2 Leaking cylinders and tanks. The require­ments of Section 6004.2.2.3 shall apply to outdoor cyl­inders and tanks. Gas cabinets and exhausted enclosures shall be located within or immediately adja­cent to outdoor storage or use areas. 
6004.3.2.3 Local exhaust for portable tanks. Local exhaust for outdoor portable tanks shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 6004.2.2.4. 
6004.3.2.4 Piping and controls-stationary tanks. Pip­ing and controls for outdoor stationary tanks shall be in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 6004.2.2.5. 
6004.3.3 Outdoor storage weather protection for porta­ble tanks and cylinders. Weather protection in accor­dance with Section 5004.13 shall be provided for portable tanks and cylinders located outdoors and not within gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures. The storage area shall be equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. 
Exception: An automatic sprinkler system is not required when: 
1. 	
All materials under the weather protection struc­ture, including hazardous materials and the con­tainers in which they are stored, are non­combustible. 

2. 	
The weather protection structure is located not less than 30 feet (9144 mm) from combustible 


materials or structures or is separated from such materials or structures using a fire barrier com­plying with Section 6004.3.2.1.1. 
6004.3.4 Outdoor use of cylinders, containers and por­table tanks. Cylinders, containers and portable tanks in outdoor use shall be located in gas cabinets or exhausted enclosures and shall comply with Sections 6004.3.4.1 through 6004.3.4.3. 
6004.3.4.1 Treatment systems. The treatment system requirements set forth in Section 6004.2.2.7 shall apply to highly toxic or toxic gases located outdoors. 
6004.3.4.2 Emergency power. The requirements for emergency power set forth in Section 6004.2.2.8 shall apply to highly toxic or toxic gases located outdoors. 
6004.3.4.3 Gas detection system. The gas detection system requirements set forth in Section 6004.2.2.1 0 shall apply to highly toxic or toxic gases located out­doors. 
SECTION 6005 
OZONE GAS GENERATORS 


6005.1 Scope. Ozone gas generators having a maximum ozone-generating capacity of 0.5 pound (0.23 kg) or more over a 24-hour period shall be in accordance with Sections 6005.2 through 6005.6. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Ozone-generating equipment used in Group R-3 occupancies. 

2. 	
Ozone-generating equipment when used in Group H-5 occupancies when in compliance with Chapters 27 and 50 and the other provisions in this chapter for highly toxic gases. 



6005.2 Design. Ozone gas generators shall be designed, fab­ricated and tested in accordance with NEMA 250. 
6005.3 Location. Ozone generators shall be located in approved cabinets or ozone generator rooms in accordance with Section 6005.3.1 or 6005.3.2. 
Exception: An ozone gas generator within an approved pressure vessel when located outside of buildings. 
6005.3.1 Cabinets. Ozone cabinets shall be constructed of approved materials and compatible with ozone. Cabinets shall display an approved sign stating: OZONE GAS GENERATOR-HIGHLY TOXIC-OXIDIZER. 
Cabinets shall be braced for seismic activity in accor­dance with the California Building Code. 
Cabinets shall be mechanically ventilated in accor­dance with the California Mechanical Code with a mini­mum of six air changes per hour. 
The average velocity of ventilation at makeup air open­ings with cabinet doors closed shall not be less than 200 feet per minute (1.02 m/s). 
6005.3.2 Ozone gas generator rooms. Ozone gas genera­tor rooms shall be mechanically ventilated in accordance with the California Mechanical Code with a minimum of 
HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC MATERIALS 

six air changes per hour. Ozone gas generator rooms shall be equipped with a continuous gas detection system that will shut off the generator and sound a local alarm when concentrations above the permissible exposure limit occur. 
Ozone gas generator rooms shall not be normally occu­pied, and such rooms shall be kept free of combustible and hazardous material storage. Room access doors shall dis­play an approved sign stating: OZONE GAS GENERA­TOR-HIGHLY TOXIC-OXIDIZER. 
6005.4 Piping, valves and fittings. Piping, valves, fittings and related components used to convey ozone shall be in accordance with Sections 6005.4.1 through 6005.4.3. 
6005.4.1 Piping. Piping shall be welded stainless steel piping or tubing. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Double-walled piping. 

2. 	
Piping, valves, fittings and related components 



located in exhausted enclosures. 6005.4.2 Materials. Materials shall be compatible with ozone and shall be rated for the design operating pres­sures. 
6005.4.3 Identification. Piping shall be identified with the following: OZONE GAS-HIGHLY TOXIC-OXI­DIZER. 
6005.5 Automatic shutdown. Ozone gas generators shall be designed to shut down automatically under the following conditions: 
1. 	
When the dissolved ozone concentration in the water being treated is above saturation when measured at the point where the water is exposed to the atmosphere. 

2. 	
When the process using generated ozone is shut down. 

3. 	
When the gas detection system detects ozone. 

4. 	
Failure of the ventilation system for the cabinet or ozone-generator room. 

5. 
Failure of the gas detection system. 6005.6 Manual shutdown. Manual shutdown controls shall 


be provided at the generator and, where in a room, within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the main exit or exit access door. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 61 -LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section [T-19 §3.22 (a)(c)] [T-19 §3.22 (b)]  X X X  

. . 
..

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISIOn 1 provlSlons that are found m the Californza F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 61 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 
SECTION 61 01 
GENERAL 


6101.1 Scope. Storage, handling and transportation of lique­fied petroleum gas (LP-gas) and the installation of LP-gas equipment pertinent to systems for such uses shall comply with this chapter and NFP A 58. Properties of LP-gases shall be determined in accordance with Appendix B of NFP A 58. 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.22(a) and (c)] Liquefied Petroleum Gas. 
(a) 
When liquefied petroleum gas is used, the storage and handling thereof shall conform to the appropriate provi­sions referenced in California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Sections 3.02 and 3.03. 

(c) 
California Code ofRegulations, Title 8, Section 475 is hereby adopted as a part of Title 19, Division 1 regula­tions. 



6101.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tions 105.6 and 105.7. 
Distributors shall not fill an LP-gas container for which a permit is required unless a permit for installation has been issued for that location by the fire code official. 
6101.3 Construction documents. Where a single LP-gas container is more than 2,000 gallons (7570 L) in water capac­ity or the aggregate water capacity of LP-gas containers is more than 4,000 gallons (15 140 L), the installer shall submit construction documents for such installation. 
SECTION 61 02 
DEFINITIONS 


6102.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LP-gas). 
LP-GAS CONTAINER. 
SECTION 6103 
INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT 


6103.1 General. LP-gas equipment shall be installed in accordance with the California Mechanical Code and NFPA 58, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. 
6103.2 Use of LP-gas containers in buildings. The use of LP-gas containers in buildings shall be in accordance with Sections 6103.2.1 and 6103.2.2. 
6103.2.1 Portable containers. Portable LP-gas contain­ers, as defined in NFP A 58, shall not be used in buildings except as specified in NFPA 58 and Sections 6103.2.1.1 through 6103.2.1.7. 
6103.2.1.1 Use in basement, pit or similar location. LP-gas containers shall not be used in a basement, pit or similar location where heavier-than-air gas might collect. LP-gas containers shall not be used in an above-grade underfloor space or basement unless such location is provided with an approved means of ventila­tion. 
Exception: Use with self-contained torch assem­blies in accordance with Section 6103.2.1.6. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6103.2.1.2 Construction and temporary heating. Portable LP-gas containers are allowed to be used in buildings or areas of buildings undergoing construction or for temporary heating as set forth in Sections 6.19 .4, 
6.19.5 and 6.19.8 ofNFPA 58. 
6103.2.1.3 Group F occupancies. In Group F occu­pancies, portable LP-gas containers are allowed to be used to supply quantities necessary for processing, research or experimentation. Where manifolded, the aggregate water capacity of such containers shall not exceed 735 pounds (334 kg) per manifold. Where mul­tiple manifolds of such containers are present in the same room, each manifold shall be separated from other manifolds by a distance of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm). 
6103.2.1.4 Group E and I occupancies. In Group E and I occupancies, portable LP-gas containers are allowed to be used for research and experimentation. Such containers shall not be used in classrooms. Such containers shall not exceed a 50-pound (23 kg) water capacity in occupancies used for educational purposes and shall not exceed a 12-pound (5 kg) water capacity in occupancies used for institutional purposes. Where more than one such container is present in the same room, each container shall be separated from other con­tainers by a distance of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm). 
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.22(b)] Liquefied Petroleum Gas. 
(b) All liquefied petroleum gas tanks located in school yards shall be surrounded by a rugged steel fence or equivalent. Tanks in other occupancies shall also be so protected if in the opinion of the enforcement agency such protection is needed to prevent unauthorized tampering. The fence shall be at least 6 feet in height and, if it com­pletely surrounds the tank, shall be located a minimum of 3 feet from the tanks. Fenced areas shall be locked when unattended. 
6103.2.1.5 Demonstration uses. Portable LP-gas con­tainers are allowed to be used temporarily for demon­strations and public exhibitions. Such containers shall not exceed a water capacity of 12 pounds (5 kg). Where more than one such container is present in the same room, each container shall be separated from other con­tainers by a distance of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm). 
6103.2.1.6 Use with self-contained torch assemblies. Portable LP-gas containers are allowed to be used to supply approved self-contained torch assemblies or similar appliances. Such containers shall not exceed a water capacity of 21pounds (1 kg).
/2 

6103.2.1.7 Use for food preparation. Where approved, listed LP-gas commercial food service appli­ances are allowed to be used for food-preparation within restaurants and in attended commercial food­catering operations in accordance with the California Mechanical Code and NFP A 58. 
6103.2.2 Industrial vehicles and floor maintenance machines. LP-gas containers on industrial vehicles and floor maintenance machines shall comply with Sections 
11.13 and 11.14 of NFPA 58. 
6103.3 Location of equipment and piping. Equipment and piping shall not be installed in locations where such equip­ment and piping is prohibited by the California Mechanical Code. 
SECTION 6104 
LOCATION OF LP-G AS CONTAINERS 

6104.1 General. The storage and handling of LP-gas and the installation and maintenance of related equipment shall com­ply with NFPA 58 and be subject to the approval of the fire code official, except as provided in this chapter. 
6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. Within the limits established by law restricting the storage of liquefied petroleum gas for the protection of heavily popu­lated or congested areas, the aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not exceed a water capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570 L) (see Section 3 of the Sample Legislation for Adop­tion of the California Fire Code on page v). 
Exception: In particular installations, this capacity limit shall be determined by the fire code official, after consid­eration of special features such as topographical condi­tions, nature of occupancy, and proximity to buildings, capacity of proposed LP-gas containers, degree of fire pro­tection to be provided and capabilities of the local fire department. 
6104.3 Container location. LP-gas containers shall be located with respect to buildings, public ways and lot lines of adjoining property that can be built upon, in accordance with Table 6104.3. 
6104.3.1 Installation on roof prohibited. LP-gas con­tainers used in stationary installations shall not be located on the roofs of buildings. 
6104.3.2 Special hazards. LP-gas containers shall also be located with respect to special hazards including, but not limited to, above-ground flammable or combustible liquid tanks, oxygen or gaseous hydrogen containers, flooding or electric power lines as specified in Section 6.4.5 of NFPA 
58. 

6104.4 Multiple LP-gas container installations. Multiple LP-gas container installations with a total water storage capacity of more than 180,000 gallons (681 300 L) [150,000­gallon (567 750 L) LP-gas capacity] shall be subdivided into groups containing not more than 180,000 gallons (681 300 L) in each group. Such groups shall be separated by a distance of not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm), unless the containers are protected in accordance with one of the following: 
I. 	Mounded in an approved manner. 
2. 	
Protected with approved insulation on areas that are subject to impingement of ignited gas from pipelines or other leakage. 

3. 	
Protected by firewalls of approved construction. 

4. 	
Protected by an approved system for application of water as specified in Table 6.4.2 of NFPA 58. 


LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 
5. Protected by other approved means. 
Where one of these forms of protection is provided, the 


separation shall not be less than 25 feet (7620 mm) between LP-gas container groups. 
SECTION 6105 
PROHIBITED USE OF LP-GAS 


6105.1 Nonapproved equipment. LP-gas shall not be used for the purpose of operating devices or equipment unless such device or equipment is approved for use with LP-gas. 
6105.2 Release to the atmosphere. LP-gas shall not be released to the atmosphere, except through an approved liq­uid-level gauge or other approved device. 
SECTION 61 06 
DISPENSING AND OVERFILLING 


6106.1 Attendants. Dispensing of LP-gas shall be performed by a qualified attendant. 
6106.2 Overfilling. LP-gas containers shall not be filled or maintained with LP-gas in excess of either the volume deter­mined using the fixed liquid-level gauge installed by the manufacturer or the weight determined by the required per­centage of the water capacity marked on the container. Porta­ble LP-gas containers shall not be refilled unless equipped with an overfilling prevention device (OPD) where required by Section 5.7.3 ofNFPA 58. 
6106.3 Dispensing locations. The point of transfer of LP-gas from one LP-gas container to another shall be separated from exposures as specified in NFPA 58. 
TABLE 6104.3 
LOCATION OF LP·GAS CONTAINERS 

MINIMUM SEPARATION BETWEEN LP-GAS CONTAINERS AND 
BUILDINGS, PUBLIC WAYS OR LOT LINES OF ADJOINING 
PROPERTY THAT CAN BE BUILT UPON 

MINIMUM SEPARATION LP-GAS CONTAINER CAPACITY BETWEEN LP-GAS CONTAINERSb,c (water gallons) Mounded or underground Above-ground 

(feet)LP-gas containers' 
LP-gas containersb (feet) 
(feet) 
Less than 125'· ct None10 
5" 
125 to 250 10 None10 
251 to 500 10 10 
3 25e,f
501 to 2,000 310 
2,001 to 30,000 50 50 5 
30,001 to 70,000 50 75 (0.25 of sum of diameters of70,001 to 90,000 50 100 

adjacent LP-gas containers) 90,001 to 120,000 
12550 

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon= 3.785 L. 
a. 	
Minimum distance for underground LP-gas containers shall be measured from the pressure relief device and the filling or liquid-level gauge vent connection at the container, except that all parts of an underground LP-gas container shall be 10 feet or more from a building or lot line of adjoining property which can be built upon. 

b. 
For other than installations in which the overhanging structure is 50 feet or more above the relief-valve discharge outlet. In applying the distance between buildings and ASME LP-gas containers with a water capacity of 125 gallons or more, a minimum of 50 percent of this horizontal distance shall also apply to all portions of the building which project more than 5 feet from the building wall and which are higher than the relief valve discharge outlet. This horizontal distance shall be measured from a point determined by projecting the outside edge of such overhanging structure vertically downward to grade or other level upon which the LP-gas container is installed. Distances to the building wall shall not be less than those prescribed in this table. 

c. 	
When underground multicontainer installations are comprised of individual LP-gas containers having a water capacity of 125 gallons or more, such containers shall be installed so as to provide access at their ends or sides to facilitate working with cranes or hoists. 

d. 
At a consumer site, if the aggregate water capacity of a multicontainer installation, comprised of individual LP-gas containers having a water capacity of less than 125 gallons, is 500 gallons or more, the minimum distance shall comply with the appropriate portion of Table 6104.3, applying the aggregate capacity rather than the capacity per LP-gas container. If more than one such installation is made, each installation shall be separated from other installations by at least 25 feet. Minimum distances between LP-gas containers need not be applied. 

e. 
The following shall apply to above-ground containers installed alongside buildings: 


1. 
LP-gas containers of less than a 125-gallon water capacity are allowed next to the building they serve when in compliance with Items 2, 3 and 4. 

2. 	
Department of Transportation (DOTn) specification LP-gas containers shall be located and installed so that the discharge from the container pressure relief device is at least 3 feet horizontally from building openings below the level of such discharge and shall not be beneath buildings unless the space is well ventilated to the outside and is not enclosed for more than 50 percent of its perimeter. The discharge from LP-gas container pressure relief devices shall be located not less than 5 feet from exterior sources of ignition, openings into direct-vent (sealed combustion system) appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes. 

3. 
ASME LP-gas containers of less than a 125-gallon water capacity shall be located and installed such that the discharge from pressure relief devices shall not terminate in or beneath buildings and shall be located at least 5 feet horizontally from building openings below the level of such discharge and not less than 5 feet from exterior sources of ignition, openings into direct vent (sealed combustion system) appliances, or mechanical ventilation air intakes. 

4. 	
The filling connection and the vent from liquid-level gauges on either DOTn or ASME LP-gas containers filled at the point of installation shall not be less than 10 feet from exterior sources of ignition, openings into direct vent (sealed combustion system) appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes. 


f. 	This distance is allowed to be reduced to not less than 10 feet for a single LP-gas container of 1 ,200-gallon water capacity or less, provided such container is at least 25 feet from other LP-gas containers of more than 125-gallon water capacity. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 6107 	6109.4 Separation from means of egress. LP-gas containers 
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AND DEVICES 
6107.1 Safety devices. Safety devices on LP-gas containers, equipment and systems shall not be tampered with or made ineffective. 
6107.2 Smoking and other sources of ignition. "No Smok­ing" signs complying with Section 310 shall be posted when required by the fire code official. Smoking within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a point of transfer, while filling operations are in progress at LP-gas containers or vehicles, shall be prohib­ited. 
Control of other sources of ignition shall comply with Chapter 3 of this code and Section 6.22 of NFPA 58. 
6107.3 Clearance to combustibles. Weeds, grass, brush, trash and other combustible materials shall be kept a mini­mum of 10 feet (3048 mm) from LP-gas tanks or containers. 
6107.4 Protecting containers from vehicles. Where exposed to vehicular damage due to proximity to alleys, driveways or parking areas, LP-gas containers, regulators and piping shall be protected in accordance with Section 312. 
SECTION 6108 
FIRE PROTECTION 


6108.1 General. Fire protection shall be provided for instal­lations having LP-gas storage containers with a water capac­ity of more than 4,000 gallons (15 140 L), as required by Section 6.25 ofNFPA 58. 
6108.2 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguish­ers complying with Section 906 shall be provided as specified in NFPA 58. 
SECTION 61 09 
STORAGE OF PORTABLE LP-GAS CONTAINERS 
AWAITING USE OR RESALE 

6109.1 General. Storage of portable LP-gas containers of 1,000 pounds ( 454 kg) or less, whether filled, partially filled or empty, at consumer sites or distribution points, and for resale by dealers or resellers shall comply with Sections 6109.2 through 6109.14. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
LP-gas containers that have not previously been in LP-gas service. 

2. 	
LP-gas containers at distribution plants. 

3. 	
LP-gas containers at consumer sites or distribution points, which are connected for use. 


6109.2 Exposure hazards. LP-gas containers in storage shall be located in a manner that minimizes exposure to excessive temperature rise, physical damage or tampering. 
6109.3 Position. LP-gas containers in storage having individ­ual water capacity greater than 21pounds (1 kg) [nominal1­
/2 

pound (0.454 kg) LP-gas capacity] shall be positioned with the pressure relief valve in direct communication with the vapor space of the container. 
stored in buildings in accordance with Sections 6109.9 and 6109.11 shall not be located near exit access doors, exits, stairways or in areas normally used, or intended to be used, as a means of egress. 
6109.5 Quantity. Empty LP-gas containers that have been in LP-gas service shall be considered as full containers for the purpose of determining the maximum quantities of LP-gas allowed in Sections 6109.9 and 6109.11. 
6109.6 Storage on roofs. LP-gas containers that are not con­nected for use shall not be stored on roofs. 
6109.7 Storage in basement, pit or similar location. LP-gas containers shall not be stored in a basement, pit or similar location where heavier-than-air gas might collect. LP-gas containers shall not be stored in above-grade underfloor spaces or basements unless such location is provided with an approved means of ventilation. 
Exception: Department of Transportation (DOTn) specifi­cation cylinders with a maximum water capacity of 21/ 2 pounds (1 kg) for use in completely self-contained hand torches and similar applications. The quantity of LP-gas shall not exceed 20 pounds (9 kg). 
6109.8 Protection of valves on LP-gas containers in stor­age. LP-gas container valves shall be protected by screw-on­type caps or collars which shall be securely in place on all containers stored regardless of whether they are full, partially full or empty. Container outlet valves shall be closed or plugged. 
6109.9 Storage within buildings accessible to the public. Department of Transportation (DOTn) specification cylinders with maximum water capacity of 21pounds (1 kg) used in 
/2 

completely self-contained hand torches and similar applica­tions are allowed to be stored or displayed in a building accessible to the public. The quantity of LP-gas shall not exceed 200 pounds (91 kg) except as provided in Section 6109.11. 
6109.10 Storage within buildings not accessible to the public. The maximum quantity allowed in one storage loca­tion in buildings not accessible to the public, such as indus­trial buildings, shall not exceed a water capacity of 735 pounds (334 kg) [nominal 300 pounds (136 kg) of LP-gas]. Where additional storage locations are required on the same floor within the same building, they shall be separated by a minimum of 300 feet (91 440 mm). Storage beyond these limitations shall comply with Section 6109.11. 
6109.10.1 Quantities on equipment and vehicles. LP­gas containers carried as part of service equipment on highway mobile vehicles need not be considered in the total storage capacity in Section 6109.10, provided such vehicles are stored in private garages and do not carry more than three LP-gas containers with a total aggregate LP-gas capacity not exceeding 100 pounds (45.4 kg) per vehicle. LP-gas container valves shall be closed. 
6109.11 Storage within rooms used for gas manufactur­ing. Storage within buildings or rooms used for gas manufac­turing, gas storage, gas-air mixing and vaporization, and 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 

compressors not associated with liquid transfer shall comply with Sections 6109.11.1 and 6109.11.2. 
6109.11.1 Quantity limits. The maximum quantity of LP­gas shall be 10,000 pounds (4540 kg). 

6109.11.2 Construction. The construction of such build­ings and rooms shall comply with requirements for Group H occupancies in the California Building Code, Chapter 10 ofNFPA 58 and both of the following: 
1. 	
Adequate vents shall be provided to the outside at both top and bottom, located at least 5 feet (1524 mm) from building openings. 

2. 	
The entire area shall be classified for the purposes of ignition source control in accordance with Section 


6.22 of NFP A 58. 

6109.12 Location of storage outside of buildings. Storage outside of buildings of LP-gas containers awaiting use, resale or part of a cylinder exchange program shall be located in accordance with Table 6109.12. 
6109.13 Protection of containers. LP-gas containers shall be stored within a suitable enclosure or otherwise protected against tampering. Vehicular protection shall be provided as required by the fire code official. 
6109.14 Alternative location and protection of storage. Where the provisions of Sections 6109.12 and 6109.13 are impractical at construction sites, or at buildings or structures undergoing major renovation or repairs, the storage of con­tainers shall be as required by the fire code official. 
6109.15 LP-gas cylinder exchange for resale. In addition to other applicable requirements of this chapter, facilities oper­ating LP-gas cylinder exchange stations that are accessible to the public shall comply with the following requirements. 
1. 	
Cylinders shall be secured in a lockable, ventilated metal cabinet or other approved enclosure. 


2. 
Cylinders shall be accessible only by authorized per­sonnel or by use of an automated exchange system in accordance with Section 6109.15.1. 

3. 
A sign shall be posted on the entry door of the business operating the cylinder exchange stating "DO NOT 


BRING LP-GAS CYLINDERS INTO THE BUILD­ING" or similar approved wording. 

4. An emergency contact information sign shall be posted within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the cylinder storage cabi­net. The content, lettering, size, color and location of the required sign shall be as required by the fire code official. 
6109.15.1 Automated cylinder exchange stations. Cyl­inder exchange stations that include an automated vending system for exchanging cylinders shall comply with the fol­lowing additional requirements: 
1. 	
The vending system shall only permit access to a single cylinder per individual transaction. 

2. 	
Cabinets storing cylinders shall be designed such that cylinders can only be placed inside when they are oriented in the upright position. 

3. 
Devices operating door releases for access to stored cylinders shall be permitted to be pneumatic, mechanical or electrically powered. 

4. 	
Electrical equipment inside of or within 5 feet (1524 mm) of a cabinet storing cylinders, including but not limited to electronics associated with vending opera­tions, shall comply with the requirements for Class I, Division 2 equipment in accordance with NFP A 


70. 
5. 
A manual override control shall be permitted for use by authorized personnel. On newly installed cylin­der exchange stations, the vending system shall not be capable of returning to automatic operation after a manual override until the system has been inspected and reset by authorized personnel. 

6. 
Inspections shall be conducted by authorized per­sonnel to verify that all cylinders are secured, access doors are closed and the station has no visible dam­age or obvious defects, which necessitate placing the station out of service. The frequency of inspections shall be as specified by the fire code official. 



TABLE 6109.12 
SEPARATION FROM EXPOSURES OF LP-GAS CONTAINERS AWAITING USE, 
RESALE OR EXCHANGE STORED OUTSIDE OF BUILDINGS 



MINIMUM SEPARATION DISTANCE FROM STORED LP-GAS CYLINDERS TO (feet): 












Doorway or
Nearest important 
Line of adjoining property occupied 
Doorway or

QUANTITY OF 
Motor

LP-gas
by schools, places of religious 
opening to a 
opening to a
building or group ofLP-GAS STORED 

Combustible 
vehicle

dispensing 
building with two or 
building with
buildings or line of 
worship, hospitals, athletic fields or
(pounds) 
materials 
fuel 
one means of
other points of public gathering; 

station 
more means of
adjoining property that 
dispenser
egress
may be built upon 
busy thoroughfares; or sidewalks 
egress 
5 
10 
20

720 or less 
0 
0 
5 
10 
20

721-2,500 
10 
5 
10 
10
0 
10 

2,501-6,000 
10 
10 
10 
10 
20
10 
10 

20 
20 
20 
20

6,001 -10,000 
20 
20 
10 

25 
25 
20

Over 10,000 
25 
25 
25 
10 

For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm, I pound= 0.454 kg. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 
SECTION 6110 
LP-GAS CONTAINERS NOT IN SERVICE 

6110.1 Temporarily out of service. LP-gas containers whose use has been temporarily discontinued shall comply with all of the following: 
l. 	Be disconnected from appliance piping. 
2. 	
Have LP-gas container outlets, except relief valves, closed or plugged. 

3. 	
Be positioned with the relief valve in direct communi­


cation with the LP-gas container vapor space. 6110.2 Permanently out of service. LP-gas containers to be placed permanently out of service shall be removed from the site. 
SECTION 6111 
PARKING AND GARAGING OF 
LP-GAS TANK VEHICLES 


6111.1 General. Parking of LP-gas tank vehicles shall com­ply with Sections 6111.2 and 6111.3. 
Exception: In cases of accident, breakdown or other emergencies, LP-gas tank vehicles are allowed to be parked and left unattended at any location while the opera­tor is obtaining assistance. 
6111.2 Unattended parking. The unattended parking of LP­gas tank vehicle shall be in accordance with Sections 6111.2.1 and6111.2.2. 
6111.2.1 Near residential, educational and institutional occupancies and other high-risk areas. LP-gas tank vehicles shall not be left unattended at any time on resi­dential streets or within 500 feet (152 m) of a residential area, apartment or hotel complex, educational facility, hospital or care facility. Tank vehicles shall not be left unattended at any other place that would, in the opinion of the fire code official, pose an extreme life hazard. 
6111.2.2 Durations exceeding 1 hour. LP-gas tank vehi­cles parked at any one point for longer than 1 hour shall be located as follows: 
1. 	
Off public streets, highways, public avenues or pub­lic alleys. 

2. 	
Inside of a bulk plant. 

3. 	
At other approved locations not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from buildings other than those approved for the storage or servicing of such vehi­cles. 


6111.3 Garaging. Garaging of LP-gas tank vehicles shall be as specified in NFPA 58. Vehicles with LP-gas fuel systems are allowed to be stored or serviced in garages as specified in Section 11.16 ofNFPA 58. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 62 -ORGANIC PEROXIDES 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 62 
ORGANIC PEROXIDES 
SECTION 6201 
GENERAL 


6201.1 Scope. The storage and use of organic peroxides shall be in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 50. 
Unclassified detonable organic peroxides that are capable of detonation in their normal shipping containers under con­ditions of fire exposure shall be stored in accordance with Chapter 56. 
6201.2 Permits. Permits shall be required for organic perox­ides as set forth in Section 105.6. 
SECTION 6202 
DEFINITION 


6202.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
ORGANIC PEROXIDE. Class I. Class II. Class III. Class IV. Class V. Unclassified detonable. 
SECTION 6203 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6203.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of organic peroxides in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001,5003, 6201 and 6203. 
6203.1.1 Special limitations for indoor storage and use by occupancy. The indoor storage and use of organic per­oxides shall be in accordance with Sections 6203 .1.1.1 through 6203.1.1.4. 
6203.1.1.1 Group A, E, I or U occupancies. In Group A, E, I or U occupancies, any amount of unclassified detonable and Class I organic peroxides shall be stored in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Unclassified detonable and Class I organic perox­ides shall be stored in hazardous materials stor­age cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
The hazardous materials storage cabinets shall not contain other storage. 


6203.1.1.2 Group R occupancies. Unclassified deto­nable and Class I organic peroxides shall not be stored or used within Group R occupancies. 
6203.1.1.3 Group B, F, M or S occupancies. Unclas­sified detonable and Class I organic peroxides shall not be stored or used in offices, or retail sales areas of Group B, F, M or S occupancies. 
6203.1.1.4 Classrooms. In classrooms in Group B, For M occupancies, any amount of unclassified detonable and Class 1 organic peroxides shall be stored in accor­dance with the following. 
1. 	
Unclassified detonable and Class 1 organic per­oxides shall be stored in hazardous materials stor­age cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
The hazardous materials storage cabinets shall 



not contain other storage. 6203.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of organic peroxides in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chapter. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SECTION 6204 
STORAGE 


6204.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of organic peroxides in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
Indoor storage of unclassified detonable organic peroxides that are capable of detonation in their normal shipping con­tainers under conditions of fire exposure shall be stored in accordance with Chapter 56. 
6204.1.1 Detached storage. Storage of organic peroxides shall be in detached buildings when required by Section 5003.8.2. 
6204.1.2 Distance from detached buildings to expo­sures. In addition to the requirements of the California Building Code, detached storage buildings for Class I, II, III, IV and V organic peroxides shall be located in accor­dance with Table 6204.1.2. Detached buildings contain­ing quantities of unclassified detonable organic peroxides in excess of those set forth in Table 5003.8.2 shall be located in accordance with Section 5601. 
6204.1.3 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to the require­ments of Section 5004.12, floors of storage areas shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6204.1.4 Electrical wiring and equipment. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.9.4, electrical wiring and equipment in storage areas for Class I or II organic perox­ides shall comply with the requirements for electrical Class I, Division 2 locations. 
6204.1.5 Smoke detection. An approved supervised smoke detection system in accordance with Section 907 shall be provided in rooms or areas where Class I, II or III organic peroxides are stored. Activation of the smoke detection system shall sound a local alarm. 
Exception: A smoke detection system shall not be required in detached storage buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic fire-extinguish­ing system complying with Chapter 9. 
6204.1.6 Maximum quantities. Maximum allowable quantities per building in a mixed occupancy building shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Table 5003.8.2. Maximum allowable quantities per building in a detached storage building shall not exceed the amounts specified in Table 6204.1.2. 
6204.1.7 Storage arrangement. Storage arrangements for organic peroxides shall be in accordance with Table 6204.1.7 and shall comply with all of the following: 
1. 	
Containers and packages in storage areas shall be closed. 

2. 	
Bulk storage shall not be in piles or bins. 

3. 	
A minimum 2-foot (610 mm) clear space shall be maintained between storage and uninsulated metal walls. 

4. 	
Fifty-five-gallon (208 L) drums shall not be stored more than one drum high. 


6204.1.8 Location in building. The storage of Class I or II organic peroxides shall be on the ground floor. Class III organic peroxides shall not be stored in basements. 
6204.1.9 Contamination. Organic peroxides shall be stored in their original DOTn shipping containers. Organic peroxides shall be stored in a manner to prevent contami­nation. 
6204.1.10 Explosion control. Indoor storage rooms, areas and buildings containing unclassified detonable and Class I organic peroxides shall be provided with explosion con­trol in accordance with Section 911. 
6204.1.11 Standby power. Standby power in accordance with Section 604 shall be provided for storage areas of Class I and unclassified detonable organic peroxide. 
6204.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of organic perox­ides in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
6204.2.1 Distance from storage to exposures. Outdoor storage areas for organic peroxides shall be located in accordance with Table 6204.1.2. 
6204.2.2 Electrical wiring and equipment. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.9.4, electrical wiring and equipment in outdoor storage areas containing unclassified detonable, Class I or II organic peroxides shall comply with the requirements for electrical Class I, Division 2 locations. 
TABLE 6204.1.2 
ORGANIC PEROXIDE8-DISTANCE TO EXPOSURES FROM DETACHED STORAGE BUILDINGS OR OUTDOOR STORAGE AREAS 


ORGANIC PEROXIDE CLASS  MAXIMUM STORAGE QUANTITY (POUNDS) AT MINIMUM SEPARATION DISTANCE  
Distance to buildings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress  Distance between individual detached storage buildings or individual outdoor storage areas  
50 feet  100 feet  150 feet  20 feet  75 feet  100 feet  
I  2,000  20,000  175,000  2,000  20,000  175,000  
II  100,000  200,000  No Limit  100,000•  No Limit  No Limit  
III  200,000  No Limit  No Limit  200,000"  No Limit  No Limit  
IV  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  
v  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  No Limit  

For SI: I foot = 304.8 mm, I pound= 0.454 kg. 
a. When the amount of organic peroxide stored exceeds this amount, the minimum separation shall be 50 feet. 
ORGANIC PEROXIDES 

TABLE 6204.1.7 STORAGE OF ORGANIC PEROXIDES 

ORGANIC  PILE CONFIGURATION  MAXIMUM QUANTITY PER BUILDING  
PEROXIDE CLASS  Maximum width (feet)  Maximum height (feet)  Minimum distance to next pile (feet)  Minimum distance to walls (feet)  
I  6  8  4a  4b  Notec  
II  10  8  4a  4b  Note c  
III  10  8  4.  4b  Note c  
IV  16  10  3a,d  4b  No Requirement  
v  No Requirement  No Requirement  No Requirement  No Requirement  No Requirement  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 
At least one main aisle with a minimum width of 8 feet shall divide the storage area. 

b. 
Distance to noncombustible walls is allowed to be reduced to 2 feet. 

c. 
See Table 6204.1.2 for maximum quantities. 

d. 
The distance shall not be less than one-half the pile height. 


6204.2.3 Maximum quantities. Maximum quantities of 
organic peroxides in outdoor storage shall be in accor­
dance with Table 6204.1.2. 

6204.2.4 Storage arrangement. Storage arrangements 
shall be in accordance with Table 6204.1.7. 

6204.2.5 Separation. In addition to the requirements of 
Section 5003.9.8, outdoor storage areas for organic perox­
ides in amounts exceeding those specified in Table 
5003.8.2 shall be located a minimum distance of 50 feet 
(15 240 mm) from other hazardous material storage. 

SECTION 6205 USE 

6205.1 General. The use of organic peroxides in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 

CHAPTER 63 -OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 63 
OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND 
OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 

SECTION 6301 
GENERAL 


6301.1 Scope. The storage and use of oxidizing materials shall be in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 50. Oxi­dizing gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. Oxidizing cryogenic fluids shall also comply with Chapter 55. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Display and storage in Group M and storage in Group S occupancies complying with Section 5003.11. 

2. 	
Bulk oxygen systems at industrial and institutional consumer sites shall be in accordance with NFP A 


55. 
3. 	Liquid oxygen stored or used in home health care in Group I-1, I-4 and R occupancies in accordance with Section 6306. 

6301.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6302 
DEFINITIONS 


6302.1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in Chap­ter 2: 
BULK OXYGEN SYSTEM. 
LIQUID OXYGEN AMBULATORY CONTAINER. 
LIQUID OXYGEN HOME CARE CONTAINER. 
OXIDIZER. Class 4. Class 3. 
Class 2. 
Class 1. 

OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUID. 
OXIDIZING GAS. 
SECTION 6303 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6303.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of oxidizing materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 6301 and 6303. Oxi­dizing gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
6303.1.1 Special limitations for indoor storage and use by occupancy. The indoor storage and use of oxidizing materials shall be in accordance with Sections 6303 .1.1.1 through 6303.1.1.3. 
6303.1.1.1 Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers. The storage and use of Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall comply with Sections 6303.1.1.1.1 through 6303.1.1.1.4. 
6303.1.1.1.1 Group A, E, I or U occupancies. In Group A, E, I or U occupancies, any amount of Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall be stored in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall be stored in hazardous materials storage cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
The hazardous materials storage cabinets shall not contain other storage. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6303.1.1.1.2 Group R occupancies. Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall not be stored or used within Group R occupancies. 
6303.1.1.1.3 Offices and retail sales areas. Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall not be stored or used in offices or retail sales areas of Group B, F, M or S occupancies. 
6303.1.1.1.4 Classrooms. In classrooms of Group B, ForM occupancies, any amount of Class 4liquid and solid oxidizers shall be stored in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Class 4 liquid and solid oxidizers shall be stored in hazardous materials storage cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
Hazardous materials storage cabinets shall not contain other storage. 



6303.1.1.2 Class 3 liquid and solid oxidizers. A maxi­mum of 200 pounds (91 kg) of solid or 20 gallons (76 L) of liquid Class 3 oxidizer is allowed in Group I occupancies when such materials are necessary for maintenance purposes or operation of equipment. The oxidizers shall be stored in approved containers and in an approved manner. 
6303.1.1.3 Oxidizing gases. Except for cylinders of nonliquefied compressed gases not exceeding a capac­ity of 250 cubic feet (7 m3) or liquefied compressed gases not exceeding a capacity of 46 pounds (21 kg) each used for maintenance purposes, patient care or operation of equipment, oxidizing gases shall not be stored or used in Group A, E, I or R occupancies or in offices in Group B occupancies. 
The aggregate quantities of gases used for mainte­nance purposes and operation of equipment shall not exceed the maximum allowable quantity per control area listed in Table 5003.1.1(1). 
Medical gas systems and medical gas supply cylin­ders shall also be in accordance with Section 5306. 
6303.1.2 Emergency shutoff. Compressed gas systems conveying oxidizing gases shall be provided with approved manual or automatic emergency shutoff valves that can be activated at each point of use and at each source. 
6303.1.2.1 Shutoff at source. A manual or automatic fail-safe emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on supply piping at the cylinder or bulk source. Manual or automatic cylinder valves are allowed to be used as the required emergency shutoff valve when the source of supply is limited to unmanifolded cylinder sources. 
6303.1.2.2 Shutoff at point of use. A manual or auto­matic emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on the supply piping at the point of use or at a point where the equipment using the gas is connected to the supply sys­tem. 
6303.1.3 Ignition source control. Ignition sources in areas containing oxidizing gases shall be controlled in accordance with Section 5003.7. 
6303.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of oxidizing materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chapter. 
SECTION 6304 
STORAGE 


6304.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of oxidizing materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) shall be in accor­dance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004 and this chapter. 
6304.1.1 Detached storage. Storage of liquid and solid oxidizers shall be in detached buildings when required by Section 5003.8.2. 
6304.1.2 Distance from detached storage buildings to exposures. In addition to the requirements of the Califor­nia Building Code, detached storage buildings shall be located in accordance with Table 6304.1.2. 
TABLE 6304.1.2 OXIDIZER LIQUIDS AND SOLIDS-DISTANCE FROM DETACHED BUILDINGS AND OUTDOOR STORAGE AREAS TO EXPOSURES 

OXIDIZER CLASS  WEIGHT (pounds)  MINIMUM DISTANCE TO BUILDINGS, LOT LINES, PUBLIC STREETS, PUBLIC ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS OR MEANS OF EGRESS (feet)  
1  Note a  Not Required  
2  Note a  35  
3  Note a  50  
Over 10 to 100  75  
101 to 500  100  
501 to 1,000  125  
4  1,001 to 3,000  200  
3,001 to 5,000  300  
5,001 to 10,000  400  
Over 10,000  As required by the fire code official  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 rnrn, 1 pound= 0.454 kg. 
a. 	Any quantity over the amount required for detached storage in accordance with Section 5003.8.2, or over the outdoor maximum allowable quantity for outdoor control areas. 
6304.1.3 Explosion control. Indoor storage rooms, areas and buildings containing Class 4 liquid or solid oxidizers shall be provided with explosion control in accordance with Section 911. 
6304.1.4 Automatic sprinkler system. The automatic sprinkler system shall be designed in accordance with NFPA430. 
6304.1.5 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to Section 
5004.12, floors of storage areas for liquid and solid oxidiz­
ers shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6304.1.6 Smoke detection. An approved supervised smoke detection system in accordance with Section 907 shall be installed in liquid and solid oxidizer storage areas. 

OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
Activation of the smoke detection system shall sound a local alarm. 
Exception: Detached storage buildings protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system. 
6304.1.7 Storage conditions. The maximum quantity of oxidizers per building in detached storage buildings shall not exceed those quantities set forth in Tables 6304.1.7(1) through 6304.1.7(4). 
The storage configuration for liquid and solid oxidizers shall be as set forth in Tables 6304.1.7(1) through 6304.1.7(4). 
Class 2 oxidizers shall not be stored in basements except when such storage is in stationary tanks. 
Class 3 and 4 oxidizers in amounts exceeding the maxi­mum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Sec­tion 5003.1 shall be stored on the ground floor only. 
TABLE 6304.1.7(1) 
STORAGE OF CLASS 1 OXIDIZER LIQUIDS AND 
SOLIDS IN COMBUSTIBLE CONTAINERS" 


STORAGE CONFIGURATION  LIMITS (feet)  
Piles Maximum length Maximum width Maximum height Minimum distance to next pile Minimum distance to walls  No Limit 50 20 3 2  
Maximum quantity per pile  No Limit  
Maximum quantity per building  No Limit  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
a. 	Storage in noncombustible containers or in bulk in detached storage buildings is not limited as to quantity or arrangement. 
TABLE 6304.1.7(2) 
STORAGE OF CLASS 2 OXIDIZER LIQUIDS AND SOLIDS"·b 


STORAGE CONFIGURATION  LIMITS  
Segregated storage  Cutoff storage rooms•  Detached building  
Piles Maximum width Maximum height Minimum distance to next pile Minimum distance to walls  16 feet 10 feet Noted 2 feet  25 feet 12 feet Noted 2 feet  25 feet 12 feet Noted 2 feet  
Maximum quantity per pile  20 tons  50 tons  200 tons  
Maximum quantity per building  200 tons  500 tons  No Limit  

For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm, I ton= 0.907185 metric ton. 
a. 	
Storage in noncombustible containers is not limited as to quantity or arrangement, except that piles shall be at least 2 feet from walls in sprinklered buildings and 4 feet from walls in nonsprinklered buildings; the distance between piles shall not be less than the pile height. 

b. 	
Quantity limits shall be reduced by 50 percent in buildings or portions of buildings used for retail sales. 

c. 	
Cutoff storage rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the building by 2-hour fire barriers. 

d. 
Aisle width shall not be less than the pile height. 


TABLE 6304.1.7(3) 
STORAGE OF CLASS 3 OXIDIZER LIQUIDS AND SOLIDS"·b 


STORAGE CONFIGURATION  LIMITS  
Segregated storage  Cutoff storage rooms•  Detached building  
Piles Maximum width Maximum height Minimum distance to next pile Minimum distance to walls  12 feet 8 feet Noted 4 feet  16 feet 10 feet Noted 4 feet  20 feet 10 feet Noted 4 feet  
Maximum quantity per pile  20 tons  30 tons  150 tons  
Maximum quantity per building  100 tons  500 tons  No Limit  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 ton= 0.907185 metric ton. 
a. 	
Storage in noncombustible containers is not limited as to quantity or arrangement, except that piles shall be at least 2 feet from walls in sprinklered buildings and 4 feet from walls in nonsprinklered buildings; the distance between piles shall not be less than the pile height. 

b. 	
Quantity limits shall be reduced by 50 percent in buildings or portions of buildings used for retail sales. 

c. 	
Cutoff storage rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the building by 2-hour fire barriers. 

d. 
Aisle width shall not be less than the pile height. 


TABLE 6304.1.7(4) 
STORAGE OF CLASS 4 OXIDIZER LIQUIDS AND SOLIDS 


STORAGE CONFIGURATION  LIMITS (feet)  
Piles Maximum length Maximum width Maximum height Minimum distance to next pile  10 4 8 8  
Maximum quantity per building  No Limit  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
6304.1.8 Separation of Class 4 oxidizers from other materials. In addition to the requirements in Section 5003.9.8, Class 4 oxidizer liquids and solids shall be sepa­rated from other hazardous materials by not less than a 1­hour fire barrier or stored in hazardous materials storage cabinets. 
Detached storage buildings for Class 4 oxidizer liquids and solids shall be located a minimum of 50 feet (15 240 mm) from other hazardous materials storage. 
6304.1.9 Contamination. Liquid and solid oxidizers shall not be stored on or against combustible surfaces. Liquid and solid oxidizers shall be stored in a manner to prevent contamination. 

6304.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of oxidizing mate­rials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area set forth in Table 5003.1.1 (3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. Oxidizing gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
6304.2.1 Distance from storage to exposures for liquid and solid oxidizers. Outdoor storage areas for liquid and solid oxidizers shall be located in accordance with Table 6304.1.2. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6304.2.2 Distance from storage to exposures for oxidiz­ing gases. Outdoor storage areas for oxidizing gases shall be located in accordance with Table 6304.2.2. 
6304.2.2.1 Oxidizing cryogenic fluids. Outdoor stor­age areas for oxidizing cryogenic fluids shall be located in accordance with Chapter 55. 
6304.2.3 Storage configuration for liquid and solid oxi­dizers. Storage configuration for liquid and solid oxidizers shall be in accordance with Tables 6304.1.7(1) through 6304.1.7(4). 
6304.2.4 Storage configuration for oxidizing gases. Storage configuration for oxidizing gases shall be in accordance with Table 6304.2.2. 
SECTION 6305 
USE 


6305.1 Scope. The use of oxidizers in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. Oxidizing gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
SECTION 6306 
LIQUID OXYGEN IN HOME HEALTH CARE 

6306.1 General. The storage and use of liquid oxygen (LOX) in home health care in Group I-1, I-4 and R occupancies shall comply with Sections 6306.2 through 6306.6, or shall be stored and used accordance with Chapter 50. 
6306.2 Information and instructions to be provided. The seller of liquid oxygen shall provide the user with informa­tion in written form that includes, but is not limited to, the following: 
1. 	
Manufacturer's instructions and labeling for safe stor­age and use of the containers. 

2. 	
Locating containers away from ignition sources, exits, electrical hazards and high-temperature devices in accordance with Section 6306.3.3. 

3. 	
Restraint of containers to prevent falling in accordance with Section 6306.3.4. 

4. 
Requirements for handling containers in accordance with Section 6306.3.5. 


5. 	
Safeguards for refilling containers in accordance with Section 6306.3.6. 

6. 	
Signage requirements in accordance with Section 


6306.6. 6306.3 Liquid oxygen home care containers. Containers of liquid oxygen in home health care shall be in accordance with Sections 6306.3.1 through 6306.3.6. 
6306.3.1 Maximum individual container capacity. Liq­uid oxygen home care containers shall not exceed an indi­vidual capacity of 15.8 gallons (60 L) in Group I-1, I-4 and R occupancies. Liquid oxygen ambulatory containers are allowed in Group I-1, I-4 and R occupancies. Contain­ers of liquid oxygen in home health care shall also be stored, used and filled in accordance with Section 6306 and Sections 5503.1 and 5503.2. 
6306.3.2 Manufacturer's instructions and labeling. Containers shall be stored, used and operated in accor­dance with the manufacturer's instructions and labeling. 
6306.3.3 Locating containers. Containers shall not be located in areas where: 
1. 	
They can be overturned due to operation of a door; 

2. 	
They are in the direct path of egress; 

3. 	
They are subject to falling objects; 

4. 
They can become part of an electrical circuit; or 

5. 
Open 	flames and high-temperature devices can cause a hazard. 


6306.3.4 Restraining containers. Liquid oxygen home care containers shall be restrained while in storage or use to prevent falling caused by contact, vibration or seismic activity. Containers shall be restrained by one of the fol­lowing methods: 
1. 	
Restraining containers to a fixed object with one or more restraints. 

2. 
Restraining containers within a framework, stand or assembly designed to secure the container. 

3. 	
Restraining containers by locating a container against two points of contact such as the walls of a corner of a room or a wall and a secure furnishing or object such as a desk. 


TABLE 6304.2.2 
OXIDIZER GASES-DISTANCE FROM STORAGE TO EXPOSURES" 


QUANTITY OF GAS STORED (cubic feet at NTP)  DISTANCE TO A BUILDING NOT ASSOCIATED WITH THE MANUFACTURE OR DISTRIBUTION OF OXIDIZING GASES OR PUBLIC WAY OR LOT LINE THAT CAN BE BUILT UPON (feet)  DISTANCE BETWEEN STORAGE AREAS (feet)  
0-50,000  5  5  
50,001 -100,000  10  10  
100,001 or greater  15  10  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm, 1 cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 
a. 	The minimum required distances shall not apply when fire barriers without openings or penetrations having a minimum fire-resistance rating of 2 hours interrupt the line of sight between the storage and the exposure. The configuration of the fire barrier shall be designed to allow natural ventilation to prevent the accumulation of hazardous gas concentrations. 
OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
6306.3.5 Container handling. Containers shall be han­dled by use of a cart or hand truck designed for such use. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Liquid oxygen home care containers equipped with a roller base. 

2. 	
Liquid oxygen ambulatory containers are allowed 


to be hand carried. 6306.3.6 Filling of containers. The filling of containers shall be in accordance with Sections 6306.3.6.1 through 6306.3.6.3. 
6306.3.6.1 Filling location. Liquid oxygen home care containers and ambulatory containers shall be filled outdoors. 
Exception: Liquid oxygen ambulatory containers are allowed to be filled indoors where the supply container is specifically designed for filling such containers and written instructions are provided by the container manufacturer. 
6306.3.6.2 Incompatible surfaces. A drip pan compat­ible with liquid oxygen shall be provided under home care container fill and vent connections during the fill­ing process in order to protect against liquid oxygen spillage from coming into contact with combustible surfaces, including asphalt. 
6306.3.6.3 Open flames and high-temperature devices. The use of open flames and high-temperature devices shall be in accordance with Section 5003.7.2. 

6306.4 Maximum aggregate quantity. The maximum aggregate quantity of liquid oxygen allowed in storage and in use in each dwelling unit shall be 31.6 gallons (120 L). 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
The maximum aggregate quantity of liquid oxygen allowed in Group I-4 occupancies shall be limited by the maximum allowable quantity set forth in Table 5003.1.1(1). 

2. 	
Where individual sleeping rooms are separated from the remainder of the dwelling unit by fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 of the California Building Code, and horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the California Building Code, or both, having a mini­mum fire-resistance rating of 1 hour, the maximum aggregate quantity per dwelling unit shall be increased to allow a maximum of 31.6 gallons (120 L) of liquid oxygen per sleeping room. 



6306.5 Smoking prohibited. Smoking shall be prohibited in rooms or areas where liquid oxygen is in use. 
6306.6 Signs. W aming signs for occupancies using home health care liquid oxygen shall be in accordance with Sec­tions 6306.6.1 and 6306.6.2. 
6306.6.1 No smoking sign. A sign stating "OXYGEN­NO SMOKING" shall be posted in each room or area where liquid oxygen containers are stored, used or filled. 
6306.6.2 Premises signage. Where required by the fire code official, each dwelling unit or sleeping unit shall have an approved sign indicating that the unit contains liq­uid oxygen home care containers. 

6306.7 Fire department notification. Where required by the fire code official, the liquid oxygen seller shall notify the fire department of the locations of liquid oxygen home care con­tainers. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 64-PYROPHORIC MATERIALS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD 1 2 3 4  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  
Adopt Entire Chapter  X  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  


. . 
. 
..

* The Califomza Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Tttle 19, Dtvtswn 1 provisiOns that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Tttle 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 64 
PYROPHORIC MATERIALS 
SECTION 6401 
GENERAL 


6401.1 Scope. The storage and use of pyrophoric materials shall be in accordance with this chapter. Compressed gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
6401.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6402 
DEFINITION 


6402.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 
2: 
PYROPHORIC. 
SECTION 6403 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6403.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of pyro­phoric materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 6401 and 6403. 
6403.1.1 Emergency shutoff. Compressed gas systems conveying pyrophoric gases shall be provided with approved manual or automatic emergency shutoff valves that can be activated at each point of use and at each source. 
6403.1.1.1 Shutoff at source. An automatic emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on supply piping at the cylinder or bulk source. The shutoff valve shall be operated by a remotely located manually activated shutdown control located not less than 15 feet (4572 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
mm) from the source of supply. Manual or automatic cylinder valves are allowed to be used as the required emergency shutoff valve when the source of supply is limited to unmanifolded cylinder sources. 
6403.1.1.2 Shutoff at point of use. A manual or auto­matic emergency shutoff valve shall be installed on the supply piping at the point of use or at a point where the equipment using the gas is connected to the supply sys­tem. 

6403.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of pyro­phoric materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allow­able quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chapter. 
SECTION 6404 
STORAGE 


6404.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of pyrophoric materi­als in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1), shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004 and this chap­ter. 
The storage of silane gas, and gas mixtures with a silane concentration of 1.37 percent or more by volume, shall be in accordance with CGA G-13. 
6404.1.1 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to the require­ments of Section 5004.12, floors of storage areas contain­ing pyrophoric liquids shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6404.1.2 Pyrophoric solids and liquids. Storage of pyro­phoric solids and liquids shall be limited to a maximum area of 100 square feet (9.3 m2) per pile. Storage shall not exceed 5 feet (1524 mm) in height. Individual containers shall not be stacked. 
···~-------------·-.. ·-------~--------~---~----~-------------~-----·~------------......................... ---~--------------~------~-----~~-~-------------~~------~-----~----... -·-----~--------------·---··---~--~--~---------------------------­
Aisles between storage piles shall be a minimum of 10 feet (3048 mm) in width. 
Individual tanks or containers shall not exceed 500 gal­lons (1893 L) in capacity. 
6404.1.3 Pyrophoric gases. Storage of pyrophoric gases shall be in detached buildings where required by Section 5003.8.2. 
6404.1.4 Separation from incompatible materials. In addition to the requirements of Section 5003.9.8, indoor storage of pyrophoric materials shall be isolated from incompatible hazardous materials by 1-hour fire barriers with openings protected in accordance with the California Building Code. 
Exception: Storage in approved hazardous materials storage cabinets constructed in accordance with Section 5003.8.7. 
6404.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of pyrophoric materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003 and 5004, and this chapter. 
The storage of silane gas, and gas mixtures with a silane concentration of 1.37 percent or more by volume, shall be in accordance with CGA G-13. 
6404.2.1 Distance from storage to exposures. The sepa­ration of pyrophoric solids, liquids and gases from build­ings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
Solids and liquids. Two times the separation required by Chapter 57 for Class IB flammable liq­uids. 

2. 	
Gases. The location and maximum amount of pyro­phoric gas per storage area shall be in accordance with Table 6404.2.1. 


6404.2.2 Weather protection. When overhead construc­tion is provided for sheltering outdoor storage areas of pyrophoric materials, the storage areas shall be provided with approved automatic fire-extinguishing system protec­tion. 
SECTION 6405 
USE 

6405.1 General. The use of pyrophoric materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
6405.2 Weather protection. When overhead construction is provided for sheltering of outdoor use areas of pyrophoric materials, the use areas shall be provided with approved auto­matic fire-extinguishing system protection. 
6405.3 Silane gas. The use of silane gas, and gas mixtures with a silane concentration of 1.37 percent or more by vol­ume, shall be in accordance with CGA G-13. 
TABLE 6404.2.1 
PYROPHORIC GASES-DISTANCE FROM STORAGE TO EXPOSURES" 


MAXIMUM  MINIMUM  MINIMUM DISTANCE  MINIMUM DISTANCE TO PUBLIC  MINIMUM DISTANCE TO BUILDINGS ON THE SAME PROPERTY  
AMOUNT PER STORAGE AREA (cubic feet)  DISTANCE BETWEEN STORAGE AREAS (feet)  TO LOT LINES OF PROPERTY THAT CAN BE BUlL T UPON (feet)  STREETS, PUBLIC ALLEYS OR PUBLIC WAYS (feet)  Nonrated construction or openings within 25 feet  Two-hour construction and no openings within 25 feet  Four-hour construction and no openings within 25 feet  
250  5  25  5  5  0  0  
2,500  10  50  10  10  5  0  
7,500  20  100  20  20  10  0  

For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm, I cubic foot= 0.02832 m3• 
a. 	The minimum required distances shall be reduced to 5 feet when protective structures having a minimum fire resistance of 2 hours interrupt the line of sight between the container and the exposure. The protective structure shall be at least 5 feet from the exposure. The configuration of the protective structure shall allow natural ventilation to prevent the accumulation of hazardous gas concentrations. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 65 -PYROXYLIN (CELLULOSE NITRATE) PLASTICS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 X  T-19*  1 SFM  2 1/AC HCD DSA  AC  ss  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Califorma Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DivisiOn I prov!Slons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 65 
PYROXYLIN (CELLULOSE NITRATE) PLASTICS 
SECTION 6501 
GENERAL 


6501.1 Scope. This chapter shall apply to the storage and handling of plastic substances, materials or compounds with cellulose nitrate as a base, by whatever name known, in the form of blocks, sheets, tubes or fabricated shapes. 
Cellulose nitrate motion picture film shall comply with the requirements of Section 306. 
6501.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6502 
DEFINITIONS 


6502.1 Terms defined in Chapter 2. Words and terms used in this chapter and defined in Chapter 2 shall have the mean­ings ascribed to them as defined therein. 
SECTION 6503 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6503.1 Displays. Cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastic articles are allowed to be placed on tables not more than 3 feet (914 mm) wide and 10 feet (3048 mm) long. Tables shall be spaced at least 3 feet (914 mm) apart. Where articles are dis­played on counters, they shall be arranged in a like manner. 
6503.2 Space under tables. Spaces underneath tables shall be kept free from storage of any kind and accumulation of paper, refuse and other combustible material. 
6503.3 Location. Sales or display tables shall be so located that in the event of a fire at the table, the table will not inter­fere with free means of egress from the room in at least one direction. 
6503.4 Lighting. Lighting shall not be located directly above cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastic material, unless provided with a suitable guard to prevent heated particles from falling. 
SECTION 6504 
STORAGE AND HANDLING 


6504.1 Raw material. Raw cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plas­
tic material in a Group F building shall be stored and handled 
in accordance with Sections 6504.1.1 through 6504.1.7. 
6504.1.1 Storage of incoming material. Where raw material in excess of 25 pounds (11 kg) is received in a building or fire area, an approved vented cabinet or approved vented vault equipped with an approved auto­matic sprinkler system shall be provided for the storage of material. 
6504.1.2 Capacity limitations. Cabinets in any one work­room shall not contain more than 1,000 pounds ( 454 kg) of raw material. Each cabinet shall not contain more than 500 pounds (227 kg). Each compartment shall not contain more than 250 pounds (114 kg). 
6504.1.3 Storage of additional material. Raw material in excess of that allowed by Section 6504.1.2 shall be kept in vented vaults not exceeding 1,500-cubic-foot capacity (43 m3) of total vault space, and with approved construction, venting and sprinkler protection. 
6504.1.4 Heat sources. Cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plas­tic shall not be stored within 2 feet (610 mm) of heat-pro­ducing appliances, steam pipes, radiators or chimneys. 
6504.1.5 Accumulation of material. In factories manu­facturing articles of cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastics, approved sprinklered and vented cabinets, vaults or stor­age rooms shall be provided to prevent the accumulation in workrooms of raw stock in process or finished articles. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
6504.1.6 Operators. In workrooms of cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastic factories, operators shall not be sta­tioned closer together than 3 feet (914 mm), and the amount of material per operator shall not exceed one shift's supply and shall be limited to the capacity of three tote boxes, including material awaiting removal or use. 
6504.1.7 Waste material. Waste cellulose nitrate (pyrox­ylin) plastic materials such as shavings, chips, turnings, sawdust, edgings and trimmings shall be kept under water in metal receptacles until removed from the premises. 
6504.2 Fire protection. The manufacture or storage of arti­cles of cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastic in quantities exceeding 100 pounds ( 45 kg) shall be located in a building or portion thereof equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 
903.3.1.1. 
6504.3 Sources of ignition. Sources of ignition shall not be located in rooms in which cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastic in excess of 25 pounds (11 kg) is handled or stored. 
6504.4 Heating. Rooms in which cellulose nitrate (pyroxy­lin) plastic is handled or stored shall be heated by low-pres­sure steam or hot water radiators. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER 66 -UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIALS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 X  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1) Chapter I Section  

... 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 66 
UNSTABLE {REACTIVE) MATERIALS 
SECTION 6601 
GENERAL 


6601.1 Scope. The storage and use of unstable (reactive) materials shall be in accordance with this chapter. Com­pressed gases shall also comply with Chapter 53. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Display and storage in Group M and storage in Group S occupancies complying with Section 5003.11. 

2. 	
Detonable unstable (reactive) materials shall be stored in accordance with Chapter 56. 



6601.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6602 
DEFINITION 


6602.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIAL. Class 4. Class 3. Class 2. Class 1. 
SECTION 6603 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6603.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. Quantities of unstable (reactive) materials not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area shall be in accordance with Sections 6603.1.1 through 6603.1.2.5. 
6603.1.1 General. The storage and use of unstable (reac­tive) materials in amounts not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 6601 and 6603. 
6603.1.2 Limitations for indoor storage and use by occupancy. The indoor storage of unstable (reactive) materials shall be in accordance with Sections 6603.1.2.1 through 6603.1.2.5. 
6603.1.2.1 Group A, E, I or U occupancies. In Group A, E, I or U occupancies, any amount of Class 3 and 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall be stored in accor­dance with the following: 
1. 	
Class 3 and 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall be stored in hazardous material storage cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
The hazardous material storage cabinets shall not contain other storage. 


6603.1.2.2 Group R occupancies. Class 3 and 4 unsta­ble (reactive) materials shall not be stored or used within Group R occupancies. 
6603.1.2.3 Group M occupancies. Class 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall not be stored or used in retail sales portions of Group M occupancies. 
6603.1.2.4 Offices. Class 3 and 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall not be stored or used in offices of Group B, F, M or S occupancies. 
6603.1.2.5 Classrooms. In classrooms in Group B, For M occupancies, any amount of Class 3 and 4 unstable 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(reactive) materials shall be stored in accordance with 6604.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of unstable (reac­
the following: 
1. 	
Class 3 and 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall be stored in hazardous matelial storage cabinets complying with Section 5003.8.7. 

2. 	
The hazardous material storage cabinets shall not contain other storage. 


6603.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of unstable (reactive) materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chap­ter. 
SECTION 6604 
STORAGE 


6604.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of unstable (reactive) materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 ( 1) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
In addition, Class 3 and 4 unstable (reactive) detonable materials shall be stored in accordance with the California Building Code requirements for explosives. 
6604.1.1 Detached storage. Storage of unstable (reactive) materials shall be in detached buildings when required in Section 5003.8.2. 
6604.1.2 Explosion control. Indoor storage rooms, areas and buildings containing Class 3 or 4 unstable (reactive) materials shall be provided with explosion control in accordance with Section 911. 
6604.1.3 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to Section 5004.12, floors of storage areas for liquids and solids shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6604.1.4 Storage configuration. Unstable (reactive) materials stored in quantities greater than 500 cubic feet (14 m3) shall be separated into piles, each not larger than 500 cubic feet (14m3). Aisle width shall not be less than the height of the piles or 4 feet (1219 mm), whichever is greater. 
Exception: Materials stored in tanks. 6604.1.5 Location in building. Unstable (reactive) mate­rials shall not be stored in basements. 
tive) materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantities per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1 (3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
6604.2.1 Distance from storage to exposures Class 4 and 3 (detonable) materials. Outdoor storage of Class 4 or 3 (detonable) unstable (reactive) material shall be in accordance with Table 5604.5.2(2). The number of pounds of material listed in the table shall be the net weight of the material present. Alternatively, the number of pounds of material shall be based on a trinitrotoluene (TNT) equiva­lent weight. 
6604.2.2 Distance from storage to exposures Class 3 (deflagratable) materials. Outdoor storage of deflagrat­able Class 3 unstable (reactive) materials shall be in accor­dance with Table 5604.5.2(3). The number of pounds of material listed shall be the net weight of the material pres­ent. 
6604.2.3 Distance from storage to exposures Class 2 and 1 materials. Outdoor storage of Class 2 or 1 unstable (reactive) materials shall not be located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of buildings not associated with the manufac­ture or distribution of such mateiials, lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress. The minimum required distance shall not apply when fire bar­riers without openings or penetrations having a minimum fire-resistance rating of 2 hours interrupt the line of sight between the storage and the exposure. The fire barrier shall either be an independent structure or the exterior wall of the building adjacent to the storage area. 
6604.2.4 Storage configuration. Piles of unstable (reac­tive) materials shall not exceed 1,000 cubic feet (28m3). 
6604.2.5 Aisle widths. Aisle widths between piles shall not be less than one-half the height of the pile or 10 feet (3048 mm), whichever is greater. 
SECTION 6605 
USE 


6605.1 General. The use of unstable (reactive) materials in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per con­trol area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE CHAPTER 67-WATER-REACTIVE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Calzforma Code of Regulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn I proviSions that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
CHAPTER 67 
WATER-REACTIVE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS 
SECTION 6701 
GENERAL 


6701.1 Scope. The storage and use of water-reactive solids and liquids shall be in accordance with this chapter. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Display and storage in Group M and storage in Group S occupancies complying with Section 5003.11. 

2. 	
Detonable water-reactive solids and liquids shall be stored in accordance with Chapter 56. 



6701.2 Permits. Permits shall be required as set forth in Sec­tion 105.6. 
SECTION 6702 
DEFINITION 


6702.1 Definition. The following term is defined in Chapter 2: 
WATER-REACTIVE MATERIAL. Class 3. Class 2. Class 1. 
SECTION 6703 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


6703.1 Quantities not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of water­reactive solids and liquids in amounts not exceeding the max­imum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003,6701 and 6703. 
6703.2 Quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area. The storage and use of water­reactive solids and liquids in amounts exceeding the maxi­mum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Section 5003.1 shall be in accordance with Chapter 50 and this chap­ter. 
SECTION 6704 
STORAGE 


6704.1 Indoor storage. Indoor storage of water-reactive sol­ids and liquids in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1), shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
6704.1.1 Detached storage. Storage of water-reactive sol­ids and liquids shall be in detached buildings when required by Section 5003.8.2. 
6704.1.2 Liquid-tight floor. In addition to the provisions of Section 5004.12, floors in storage areas for water-reac­tive solids and liquids shall be of liquid-tight construction. 
6704.1.3 Waterproof room. Rooms or areas used for the storage of water-reactive solids and liquids shall be con­structed in a manner which resists the penetration of water through the use of waterproof materials. Piping carrying water for other than approved automatic sprinkler systems shall not be within such rooms or areas. 
6704.1.4 Water-tight containers. When Class 3 water­reactive solids and liquids are stored in areas equipped with an automatic sprinkler system, the materials shall be stored in closed water-tight containers. 
6704.1.5 Storage configuration. Water-reactive solids and liquids stored in quantities greater than 500 cubic feet 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(14 m3) shall be separated into piles, each not larger than 500 cubic feet (14 m3). Aisle widths between piles shall not be less than the height of the pile or 4 feet (1219 mm), whichever is greater. 
Exception: Water-reactive solids and liquids stored in tanks. 
Class 2 water-reactive solids and liquids shall not be stored in basements unless such materials are stored in closed water-tight containers or tanks. 
Class 3 water-reactive solids and liquids shall not be stored in basements. 
Class 2 or 3 water-reactive solids and liquids shall not be stored with flammable liquids. 
6704.1.6 Explosion control. Indoor storage rooms, areas and buildings containing Class 2 or 3 water-reactive solids and liquids shall be provided with explosion control in accordance with Section 911. 
6704.2 Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of water-reactive solids and liquids in quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5004 and this chapter. 
6704.2.1 General. Outdoor storage of water-reactive sol­ids and liquids shall be within tanks or closed water-tight containers and shall be in accordance with Sections 6704.2.2 through 6704.2.5. 
6704.2.2 Class 3 distance to exposures. Outdoor storage of Class 3 water-reactive solids and liquids shall not be within 75 feet (22 860 mm) of buildings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress. 
6704.2.3 Class 2 distance to exposures. Outdoor storage of Class 2 water-reactive solids and liquids shall not be within 20 feet (6096 mm) of buildings, lot lines, public streets, public alleys, public ways or means of egress. A 2­hour fire barrier without openings or penetrations, and extending not less than 30 inches (762 mm) above and to the sides of the storage area, is allowed in lieu of such dis­tance. The wall shall either be an independent structure, or the exterior wall of the building adjacent to the storage area. 
6704.2.4 Storage conditions. Class 3 water-reactive sol­ids and liquids shall be limited to piles not greater than 500 cubic feet (14m3). 
Class 2 water-reactive solids and liquids shall be lim­ited to piles not greater than 1,000 cubic feet (28m3). 
Aisle widths between piles shall not be less than one­half the height of the pile or 10 feet (3048 mm), whichever is greater. 
6704.2.5 Containment. Secondary containment shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 5004.2.2. 
SECTION 6705 
USE 


6705.1 General. The use of water-reactive solids and liquids in amounts exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area indicated in Table 5003.1.1(1) or 5003.1.1(3) shall be in accordance with Sections 5001, 5003, 5005 and this chapter. 
CHAPTERS 68 through 79 
RESERVED 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
CHAPTER80-REFERENCEDSTANDARDS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

(continued) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CHAPTER 80-REFERENCED STANDARDS-continued 

(continued) 

CHAPTER 80 -REFERENCED STANDARDS-continued 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM T-24 T-19*  HCD 1 2 1/AC  DSA AC ss  OSHPD 1 2 43  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below) Adopt Entire Chapter  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section UL521-99 UL539-00 UL 632-00 UL 753-04 UL 791-06 UL 813-96 UL 864-03  X X X X X X X  

..
...

* The Califomza Code ofRegulatzons (CCR), Title 19, D1v1s10n 1 prov1s10ns that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part VI-Referenced Standards 
CHAPTER 80 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 
This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of this document. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating agency of the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title, and the section or sections of this document that reference the standard. The application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in Section 102.7. 
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials 
444 North Capitol Street, Northwest, #249 
Washington, DC 20001 


AASHTO 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

HB-17-2002 Specification for Highway Bridges, 17th Edition 2002 ........................................ 503.2.6 

Architectural Fabric Structures Institute 
c/o Industrial Fabric Association International 1801 County Road B West Roseville, MN 55113 

AFSI 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

ASI-77 Design and Standard Manual. ......................................................... 3103.10.2 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
API  American Petroleum Institute 1220 L Street, Northwest Washington, DC 20005  
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title section number  
Spec 12P-(1995)  
(Reaffirmed 2000)  Specification for Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic Tanks ....................................5704.2.13.1.5  
RP 651-(1997)  Cathodic Protection of Aboveground Petroleum Storage Tanks ......................... 5706.7, 5706.7.1  
Std 653-(2001)  Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration and Reconstruction ....................................... 5706.7  
RP 752-(2003)  Management of Hazards Associated with Location of Process Plant  
Buildings, CMA Managers Guide ...................................................... 5706.7  
RP 1604-(1996)  Closure of Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks .........................................5704.2.13  
RP 1615-(1996)  Installation of Underground-petroleum Storage Systems ........................... 5704.2.13.1.5, 5706.7  
Std 2000-(1998)  Venting Atmosphere and Low-pressure Storage Tanks:  
Nonrefrigerated and Refrigerated ........................................5704.2.7 .3.2, 5704.2.7 .3.6  
RP 2001-(2005)  Fire Protection in Refineries, 8th Edition ................................................... 5706.7  
RP 2003-(1998)  Protection Against Ignitions Arising out of Static, Lightning and Stray Currents .................... 5706.7  
Pub! 2009-(2002)  Safe Welding and Cutting Practices in Refineries, Gas Plants and Petrochemical Plants .............. 5706.7  
Std 2015-(2001)  Safe Entry and Clearing of Petroleum Storage Tanks ................................. 5706.7, 5706.7.2  
RP 2023-(2001)  Guide for Safe Storage and Handling of Heated Petroleum-derived Asphalt  
Products and Crude-oil Residue ................................................ 5706.7, 5706.7.3  
Publ2028-(2002)  Flame Arrestors in Piping Systems ....................................................5704.2.7 .3.2  
Publ2201-(2003)  Procedures for Welding or Hot Tapping on Equipment in Service ............................... 5706.7  
RP 2350-(2005)  Overfill Protection for Storage Tanks in Petroleum Facilities, 3rd Edition ............ 5704.2.7.5.8, 5706.4.6,  
5706.7  

The American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Three Park A venue 
New York, NY 10016-5990 

ASME 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

> A13.1-2007 A17.3-2008 A18.1-2008 B16.18-2001 (Reaffirmed 2005) B16.22-2001 (Reaffirmed 2005) B31.1-2007 B31.3-2004 B31.4-2006 B31.9-2008 BPE-2009 BPVC-2007 
Scheme for the Identification of Piping Systems ............3509.3, 5003.2.2.1, 5303.4.3, 5503.4.5, 5703.5.2 
Safety Code for Existing Elevators and Escalators ............................................ 1103.3 
Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chair Lifts ....................................604.2.6 

Cast Copper-Alloy Solder Joint Pressure Fittings ...........................................909.13.1 

Wrought Copper and Copper-Alloy Solder-joint Pressure Fittings ..............................909.13.1 
Power Piping with B31.1a-2008 Addenda .................................. 5003.2.2, Table 5703.6.2 
Process Piping ........................................................ 5003.2.2.2, Table 5703.6.2 
Pipeline Transportation Systems for Liquid Hydrocarbons and Other Liquids ................Table 5703.6.2 
Building Services Piping .........................................Table 5703.6.2, 5703.6.3, 5703.6.11 
Rio-processing Equipment Standard ........................................................... . 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (Sections I, II, IV, V & VI, VIII) .........5003.2.1, 5303.2, 5303.3.2, 
5503.4.3,5503.7, 5704.2.13.1.5, 5806.3.1, 5806.4.1, 5806.4.8 

ASTM  ASTM International 100 Barr Harbor Drive West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959  
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title section number  
B 42-02e01  Specification for Seamless Copper Pipe, Standard Sizes ......................................909.13.1  
B 43-98(2004)  Specification for Seamless Red Brass Pipe, Standard Sizes ....................................909.13.1  
B 68-02  Specification for Seamless Copper Tube, Bright Annealed ....................................909.13.1  
B 88-03  Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube .............................................909.13.1  
B 251-02e01  Specification for General Requirements for Wrought Seamless Copper and Copper-alloy Tube .......909.13.1  
B 280-08  Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Field Service ........909.13.1  
D56-05  Test Method for Flash Point by Tag Closed Tester ..............................................202  
504  2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE  

REFERENCED STANDARDS 

D86-09 
D92-05a 
D93-08 D 323-08 D2859-06 
D 3278-96(2004)e1 E84-09 
E 108-07a E681-04 E 1354-09 
E 1529-06 
E 1537-07 E 1590-07 E 1966-07 E2072-04 E2404-08 
E2573-07a 
F2006-10 
F2090-10 
F2200-05 
ASTM-continued 
Test Method for Distillation of Petroleum Products at Atmospheric Pressure ......................... 202 
Test Method for Flash and Fire Points by Cleveland Open Cup ....................... 202, 2401.2, 5701.2 
Test Method for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Up Tester ................................. 202 
Test Method for Vapor Pressure of Petroleum Products (Reid Method) .............................. 202 
Standard Test Method for Ignition Characteristics of Finished Textile Floor Covering Materials ..... 804.3.3.1, 

Test Methods for Flash Point of Liquids by Small Scale Closed-cup Apparatus ....................... 202 Test Method for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials ................ 202, 803.1, 803.1.1, 803.1.2, 803.5.1, 803.5.2, 803.6, 803.9, 804.1, 804.1.1, 804.2.4 Test Methods for Fire Tests of Roof Coverings ................................................317.3 Test Method for Concentration Limits of Flammability of Chemicals (Vapors and Gases) ............... 202 Standard Test Method for Heat and Visible Smoke Release Rates for Materials and Products Using an Oxygen Consumption Calorimeter ........... 304.3.2, 304.3.4, 318.1, 808.1, 808.2 Test Method for Determining Effects of Large Hydrocarbon Pool Fires on Structural Members and Assemblies ..................................... 5704.2.9.2.3 Test Method for Fire Testing of Upholstered Furniture ............. 805.1.1.2, 805.2.1.2, 805.3.1.2, 805.4.1.2 Test Method for Fire Testing of Mattresses ...................... 805.1.2.2, 805.2.2.2, 805.3.2.2, 805.4.2.2 Test Method for Fire-resistant Joint Systems ................................................... 202 Standard Specification for Pholuminescent (Phosphorescent) Safety Markings ......................1 024.4 Standard Practice for Specimen Preparation and Mounting of Textile, Paper or Vinyl Wall or Ceiling Coverings to Assess Surface Burning Characteristics ...................................................803.5.2, 803.6 Standard Practice for Specimen Preparation and Mounting of Site-fabricated Stretch Systems to Assess Surface Burning Characteristics ....................................................803.9 Standard/Safety Specification for Window Fall Prevention Devices for Non-Emergency Escape (Egress) and Rescue (Ingress) Windows ..............................1013.8 Specification for Window Fall Prevention Devices with Emergency Escape (Egress) Release Mechanisms ..................................1013.8, 1013.8.1 Standard Specification for Automated Vehicular Gate Construction .................. 503.5, 503.6, D103.5 
Builders Hardware Manufacturers' Association 
355 Lexington A venue, 17th Floor New York, NY 10017-6603 

BHMA 
Standard Referenced reference in code number Title section number 
A156.10-2011 American National Standard for Power-operated Pedestrian Doors ............................1008.1.4.2 
A156.19-2007 American National Standard for Power Assist and Low-energy Power-operated Doors ............1008.1.4.2 

CA 
State of California Department of Consumer Affairs 
Bureau of Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation 3485 Orange Grove A venue North Highlands, CA 95660-5595 
Standard Referenced reference in code number Title section number 
California Technical Bulletin 129-1992 
California Technical Bulletin 
133-1991 
Flammability Test Procedure for Mattresses for Use in Public Buildings ................805.1.1.2, 805.2.2.2, 805.3.2.2, 805.4.2.2 
Flammability Test Procedure for Seating Furniture for Use in Public Occupancies ........805.1.1.2, 805.2.1.2, 

805.4.1.2 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Compressed Gas Association 
4221 Walney Road, 16th Floor Arlington, VA 20151-2923 

CGA 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

C-7-(2004) 
G-13-(2006) P-1-(2000) ANSI/P-18-(2006) P-20-(2003) P-23-(2003) 
S-1.1-(2005) S-1.2-(2005) 
S-1.3-(2005) 
V-1-(2005) Guide to the Preparation of Precautionary Labeling and Marking of Compressed Gas Containers .... 5303.4.2, 
Storage and Handling of Silane and Silane Mixtures (an American National Standard) .. 6404.1, 6404.2, 6405.3 Safe Handling of Compressed Gases in Containers ........................................... 5305.7 Standard for Bulk Inert Gas Systems at Consumer Sites (an American National Standard) ............ 5501.1 Standard for Classification of Toxic Mixtures ............................................ El03.1.3.1 Standard for Categorizing Gas Mixtures Containing Flammable and 
Nonflammable Components ......................................................... E102.1.2 Relief Device Standards-Part !-Cylinders for Compressed Gases ..................... 5303.3.2,5503.2 Pressure Relief Device Standards-Part 2-Cargo and 
Portable Tanks for Compressed Gases ........................................... 5303.3.2, 5503.2 Pressure Relief Device Standards-Part 3-Stationary Storage Containers for Compressed Gases ........................................ 5303.3.2, 5503.2 Standard for Gas Cylinder Valve Outlet and Inlet Connections .................................3505.2.1 
Coast Guard Regulations 
c/o Superintendent of Documents

CGR 
U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, DC 20402-9325 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

46 CFR Parts 30, 32, 
35 & 39-1999 Shipping ............................................................................ 5706.8 

Consumer Product Safety Commission 
4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 

CPSC 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

16 CFR Part 1500.41-2009 Method for Testing Primary Irritant Substances .................................................202 
16 CFR Part 1500.42-2009 Test for Eye Irritants ......................................................................202 
16 CFR Part 1500.44-2009 Method for Testing Extremely Flammable and Flammable Solids ..................................202 

16 CFR Part 1500-2009  Hazardous Substances and Articles; Administration and Enforcement Regulations .............202, 5601.1.3  
16 CFR Part 1507-2002  Fireworks Devices ....................................................................5601.1.3  
16 CFR Part 1630-2007  Standard for the Surface Flammability of Carpets and Rugs ......................... 804.3.3.1, 804.3.3.2  

U.S. Department of Commerce 
1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 

DOC 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

16 CFR Part 1632-2009 Standard for the Flammability of Mattress and Mattress Pads (FF 4-72, Amended) .......................805.1.2.1, 805.2.2.1, 805.3.2.1, 805.4.2.1 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 
U.S. Department of Labor 
c/o Superintendent of Documents

DOL 
U.S. 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402-9325 


U.S. 
Department of Transportation 



Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  
29 CFRPart  
1910.1000-2009  Air Contaminants ................................................................ 202, 2104.2.1  
29 CFRPart  
1910.1200-2009  Hazard Communication .............................................................202,5603.6  

Office of Hazardous Material Safety 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE East Building, 2nd Floor Washington, DC 20590 

DOTn 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

33 CFR Part 154-1998  Facilities Transferring Oil or Hazardous Material in Bulk ......................................5706.8  
33 CFR Part 155-1998  Oil or Hazardous Material Pollution Prevention Regulations for Vessels ...........................5706.8  
33 CFR Part 156-1998  Oil and Hazardous Material Transfer Operations .............................................5706.8  

49 CFR Parts 100-185-2005 Hazardous Materials Regulations ............................... 202, 3505.4, 5303.2, 5503.4.3, 5503.7, 5601.1, 5601.1.3, 5601.3, 5706.5.1.15 49 CFR Part 172-2009 Hazardous Materials Tables, Special Provisions, Hazardous Materials Communications, 
Emergency Response Information and Training Requirements .............................5604.6.5.2 49 CFR Part 173-2009 Shippers-General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings ................................5606.3 49 CFR Patt 173.137-2009 Shippers-General Requirements for Shipments and 
Packagings: Class 8-Assignment of Packing Group .......................................... 202 

U.S. Department of Treasury 
c/o Superintendent of Documents

DOTy 
U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, DC 20402-9325 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

27 CFR Part 55-1998 Commerce in Explosives, as amended through April1, 1998 .............................202, 5604.6.5.2 

EN 
European Committee for Standardization (EN) 
Central Secretariat 
Rue de Stassart 36 
B-10 50 Brussels 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

European Standard EN 1081 1998 Resilient Floor Coverings-Determination of the Electrical Resistance ....................2309.5.1.1 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE REFERENCED STANDARDS 
Environmental Protection Agency 
Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 

EPA 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

40 CFR Part 355-2008 Emergency Planning and Notification .....................................................H101.4 

Federal Communications Commission 
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (WTB) 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 

FCC 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

47 CFR Part 90.219-2007 Private Land Mobile Radio Services-Use of Signal Boosters ..................................510.5.4 

FM 
Factory Mutual 
Standards Laboratories Department 
1151 Boston-Providence Tumpike 
Norwood, MA 02062 


Standard Referenced reference in code number Title section number 
3260-00 3011-99 
4430-80 
Radiant Energy-Sensing Fire Detectors for Automatic Fire Alarm Signaling . ........................... . Approval Standard for Central Station Service for Fire Alarm and Protective Equipment Supervision .................................................... 907. 7.5.2 Acceptance Criteria for Smoke and Heat Vents ..............................................910.3.1 
International Code Council, Inc. 
500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor Washington, DC 20001 

ICC 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

ICC 300-12
> 
ICC ESAC 331 ICC ESAC77 
IWUIC-12
> 
Standard on Bleachers, Folding and Telescopic Seating and Grandstands ............... 1028.1.1, 1028.14.2 

Acceptance Criteria for Smoke and Heat Vents ..............................................910.3.1 Acceptance Criteria for Smoke Containment Systems Used with Fire-resistance-rated Elevator Hoistway Doors and Frames ................................707.14.1 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code® ..............................................B 103.3 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
ISO Central Secretariat 1 ch, de !a Voie-Creuse, Case postale 56 CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland 

ISO 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  
ISO 8115-86  Cotton Bales-Dimensions and Density .............................Table 2704.2.2.1, Table 5003.1.1(1)  

REFERENCED STANDARDS 
N a tiona! Electrical Manufacturer's Association 
1300 N. 17th Street, Suite 1752 
Rosslyn, VA 22209 


NEMA 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

250-2003 Enclosures for Electrical Equipment (1,000 Volt Maximum) ....................................6005.2 

National Fire Protection Association 
I Batterymarch Park Quincy, MA 02169-7471 

NFPA 
Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

11-13 12-11 12A--09 13-13  Low-, Medium-and High-expansion Foam ........................................904.7,5704.2.9.2.2 Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems .................................. Table 901.6.1, 904.8, 904.11 Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems .........................................Table 901.6.1, 904.9 Installation of Sprinkler Systems as amended* . .......................... 903.3.1.1, 903.3.2, 903.3.5.1.1, 903.3.5.2, 904.11, 905.3.4, 907.6.3, 1009.3, 3201.1, 3204.2, Table 3206.2, 3206.9, 3207.2, 3207.2.1, 3208.2.2, 3208.2.2.1, 3208.4, 3210.1, 3401.1, 5104.1, 5106.5.7, 5704.3.3.9, Table 5704.3.6.3(7), 5704.3.7.5.1, 5704.3.8.4 *NFPA 13, Amended Sections as follows: Revise Section 2.2 and add publications as follows: 2.2 NFPA Publications.  II  
NFPA 25, Standardfor the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems, 2006 California edition.  
Add a new definition as 3.4.1.1 to read as follows:  
3.4.1.1 Premixed Antifreeze Solution. A mixture of an antifreeze material with water that is prepared by the manufacturer with a quality control procedure in place that ensures that the antifreeze solution remains homogeneous.  
Revise 7.6.1.5 to read as follows:  
7.6.1.5 A placard shall be placed on the antifreeze system main valve that indicates the manufacture type and brand of the antifreeze solution, the concentration by volume of the antifreeze solution used, and the volume of the antifreeze solution used in the system.  
Revise 7.6.2.1 to read as follows:  
7.6.2.1 Antifreeze solutions shall be limited to premixed antifreeze solutions of glycerin (chemically pure or United States Pharmacopoeia 96.5%) at a maximum concentration of 50% by volume, or propylene glycol at a maximum concentration of 40% by volume.  
Add a new 7.6.2.1.1 to read:  
7.6.2.1.1 Premixed antifreeze solutions of propylene glycol exceeding 40% concentration by volume shall be permitted for use with ESFR sprinklers where the ESFR sprinklers are listed for such use in a specific application.  
Add new 7.6.2.1.2 to read as follows:  
7.6.2.1.2 Premixed antifreeze solutions other than those described in 7.6.2.1 that are listed for use in sprinkler systems shall be permitted to be used.  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
NFPA-continued TABLE A.7.6.2.1 PROPERTIES OF GLYCERIN AND PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
MATERIAL  SOLUTION (by volume)  SPECIFIC GRAVITY AT 77°F (25°C)  FREEZING POINT  
OF  oc  
Glycerin (C.P. or U.S.P. grade)  0%  1.000  32  
5  1.014  31  -0.5  
10  1.029  28  -2.2  
15  1.043  25  -3.9  
20  1.059  20  -6.7  
25  1.071  16  -8.9  
30  1.087  10  -12  
35  1.100  4  -15.5  
40  1.114  -2  -19  
45  1.130  -11  -24  
50%  1.141  -19  -28  

Propylene glycol  0%  1.000  32  0  
5  1.004  26  -3  
10  1.008  25  -4  
15  1.012  22  -6  
20  1.016  19  -7  
25  1.020  15  -10  
30  1.024  11  -12  
35  1.028  2  -17  
40%  1.032  -6  -21  

C.P.: Chemically Pure; U.S.P.: United States Pharmacopoeia 96.5%. 
Add a new 7.6.2.1.3 to read as follows: 

7.6.2.1.3 All premixed antifreeze solutions shall be provided with a certificate from the manufacturer indicating the type of antifreeze, concentration by volume, and freezing point. 
Delete current Table 7.6.2.2 and replace it with the following table in the annex renumbered as Table 
A.7.6.2.1 
A.7.6.2.1 See Table A.7.6.2.1. Delete 7.6.2.3 and Table 7.6.2.3. Revise 7.6.2.4 to read as follows: 

7.6.2.4 A premix antifreeze solution with a freezing point below the expected minimum temperature for the locality shall be provided. 
Delete existing 7.6.2.5 as well as the Figures 7.6.2.5(a), 7.6.2.S(b), and 7.6.2.5(c) and Annex A.7.6.2.5. 
Delete 7.6.2.6. 
Add an asterisk to Section 7.6 and a new Annex A.7.6 to read as follows: 

A.7.6 In cold climates and areas where the potential for freezing of pipes is a concern, options other than antifreeze are available. Such options include installing the pipe in warm spaces, tenting insulation over the piping (as illustrated in NFPA 13D), listed heat tracing, and the use of dry pipe systems and preaction systems. 
In A. 7.6.2, delete the second paragraph. 

A.7.6.2 Listed CPVC sprinkler pipe and fittings should be protected from freezing with glycerine only. The use of diethylene, ethylene, or propylene glycols is specifically prohibited. Laboratory testing shows that glycol­based antifreeze solutions present a chemical environment detrimental to CPVC. 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
Delete existing 
Revise Section 8.15.1.2.15 as follows: 

8.15.1.2.15 Exterior columns under 10 fe (0.93 m2) in total area, formed by studs or wood joist, with no sources ofignition within the column, supporting exterior canopies that are fully protected with a sprinkler system, shall not require sprinkler protection. 
Revise Section 8.15.5.7 as follows: 

8.15.5.7 The sprinkler required at the top and bottom of the elevator hoistway by 8.15.5.6 shall not be required where permitted by Chapter 30 ofthe California Building Code. 
Revise Section 8.15.7.1* as follows: 

8.15.7.1* Unless the requirements of 8.15.7.2 or 8.15.7.3 are met, sprinklers shall be installed under exterior roofs, canopies, porte-cochere, balconies, decks, or similar projections exceeding 4ft (1.2 m) in width. 
Revise Section 8.15.7.2* as follows: 

8.15.7.2* Sprinklers shall be permitted to be omitted where the canopies, roofs, balconies, decks, or similar projections are constructed with materials that are noncombustible, limited combustible, or fire retardant treated wood as defined in NFP A 703, Standard for Fire Retardant-Treated Wood and Fire-Retardant Coatings for Building Materials. 
Delete Section A.8.15.7.2 ofAnnex 
Revise Section 8.15.7.3 

8.15.7.3 Sprinklers shall be permitted to be omitted from below the canopies, roofs, balconies, decks, or similar projections are combustible construction, provided the exposed finish material on the roof, or canopy is noncombustible, limited-combustible, or fire retardant treated wood as defined in NFPA 703, Standard for Fire Retardant-Treated Wood and Fire-Retardant Coatings for Building Materials, and the roofs, or canopies contain only sprinklered concealed spaces or any of the following unsprinklered combustible concealed spaces: 
(1) 
Combustible concealed spaces filled entirely with noncombustible insulation 

(2) 
Light or ordinary hazard occupancies where noncombustible or limited-combustible ceilings are directly attached to the bottom of solid wood joists so as to create enclosed joist spaces 160 fe (4.5 m3) or less in volume, including space below insulation that is laid directly on top or within the ceiling joists in an otherwise sprinklered attic {See 11.2.3.1.4(4)( d)}. 

(3) 
Concealed spaces over isolated small roofs, or canopies not exceeding 55 fe (5.1 m2). 


Delete language to section 8.15.7.4 and reserve section number. 
8.15.7.4. Reserved. 
Revise Annex Section A.8.15.7.5 as follows: 

A.8.15.7.5 The presence of planters, newspaper machines and similar items, should not be considered storage. 
Add new Sections 8.15.7.6 as follows: 

8.15.7.6 Sprinklers may be omitted for following structures: 
(
1) Solar photovoltaic panel structures with no use underneath. Signs may be provided, as determined by the enforcing agency prohibiting any use underneath, including storage. 

(2) 
Solar photovoltaic (PV) panels supported by framing that have sufficient uniformly distributed and unobstructed openings throughout the top of the array (horizontal plane) to allow heat and gases to escape, as determined by the enforcing agency. 


Add new Sections 8.16.1.1.1.4 and 8.16.1.1.1.5 as follows: 
8.16.1.1.1.4 Where a system includes floor control valves, a hydraulic design information sign containing information for the floor shall be provided at each floor control valve. A hydraulic design information sign shall be provided for each area calculated. The installing contractor shall identify a hydraulically designed sprinkler system with a permanently marked weatherproof metal or rigid plastic sign secured with corrosion resistant wire, chain, or other approved means. Such signs shall be placed at the alarm valve, dry pipe valve, preaction valve, or deluge valve supplying the corresponding hydraulically designed area. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
NFPA-continued 
8.16.1.1.1.5 Control valves, check valves, drain valves, antifreeze valves shall be readily accessible for inspection, testing, and maintenance. Valves located more than 7 feet above the finished floor shall be provided with a means ofopening and closing the valve from the floor level. 
Revise Section 8.16.1.5.1 as follows: 

8.16.1.5.1 Private fire service main systems shall have sectional control valves at appropriate points in order to permit sectionalizing the system in the event of a break or for the making of repairs or extensions. 
Add new Sections 8.16.1.5.1.1, 8.16.1.5.1.2 and 8.16.1.5.1.3 as follows: 
8.16.1.5.1.1 Sectional control valves are not required when the fire service main system serves less than six fire appurtenances. 
8.16.1.5.1.2 Sectional control valves shall be indicating valves in accordance with Section 6. 7.1.3. 
8.16.1.5.1.3 Sectional control valves shall be located so that no more than five fire appurtenances are affected by shut-down of any single portion of the fire service main. Each fire hydrant, fire sprinkler system riser, and standpipe riser shall be considered a separate fire appurtenance. In-rack sprinkler systems shall not be considered as a separate appurtenance. 
8.16.1.5.1.4 The number offire appurtenances between sectional control valves is allowed to be modified by the authority having jurisdiction. 
Revise Section 8.16.1.5.2 as follows: 

8.16.1.5.2 A valve shall be provided on each bank where a main crosses a body ofwater or outside the building foundation(s) where the main or section of main runs under a building. 
Add new Section 9.1.3.9.1.1 as follows: 

9.1.3.9.1.1 Powder-driven studs used for attaching hangers to the building structure are prohibited in Seismic design Categories C, D, E and F. 
Revise Section 9.3.5.8.3 as follows: 

9.3.5.8.3 Where threaded pipe is used for sway bracing, it shall have a wall thickness of not less then Schedule 
40. 
Replace Section 9.3.5.9.4 as follows: 
Lag screws or power-driven fasteners shall not be used to attach braces to the building structure. 
Add language to the beginning ofSection 9.3.5.9.6 as follows: 

9.3.5.9.6 Fastening methods other than those identified in 9.3.5.9 shall not apply to other fastening methods, which shall be acceptable for use if certified by a registered professional engineer to support the loads determined in accordance with the criteria in 9.3.5.6. Calculations shall be submitted to the authority having jurisdiction. 
Revise Section 9.3.5.9.7.2* as follows: 

9.3.5.9.7.2* Concrete anchors other than those shown in Figure 9.3.5.9.1 and identified in 9.3.5.8.10 shall be acceptable for use where designed in accordance with the requirements of the building code and certified by a registered professional engineer. 
Revise Section 9.3.6.1(3) as follows: 

9.3.6.1*( 3) No. 12, 440 lb (200 Kg) wire installed at least 45 degrees from the vertical plane and anchored on both sides ofthe pipe. Powder-driven fasteners for attaching restraint are allowed to be used provided that the restraint component does not support the dead load. 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
Revise Section 10.6.5 as follows: 

10.6.5 Pipe joints shall not be located under foundation footings. The pipe under the building or building foundation shall not contain mechanical joints. 
Exceptions: 

I. Where allowed in accordance with 10.6.2. 
2. Alternate designs may be utilized where designed by a registered professional engineer and approved by the enforcing agency. 
Revise Section 11.2.3.1.4(4)(i) as follows: 

11.2.3.1.4(4)(i) Exterior columns under 10 fe (0.93 m2) in total area, formed by studs or wood joist, with no sources of ignition within the column, supporting exterior canopies that are fully protected with a sprinkler system. 
Revise Section 11.2.3.2.3.1 as follows: 

11.2.3.2.3.1 Where listed quick-response sprinklers, excluding extended coverage quick-response sprinklers, are used throughout a system or portion of a system having the same hydraulic design basis, the system area of operation shall be permitted to be reduced without revising the density as indicated in Figure 11.2.3.2.3.1 when all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
(1) 
Wet pipe system. 

(2) 
Light hazard occupancy. 

(3) 
20ft (6.1 m) maximum ceiling height. 


(4) 
There are no unprotected ceiling pockets as allowed by 8.6.7 and 8.8.7 exceeding 32 fe (3m2). 



Cl!'lilirtg h®ight (ft) 

Note: Y"' 1x+55 
For ceili!'lg height ·2; 1 Oil 0111d :5 2Q ft. y"' 1x +55 
For ceili!'l9 height< 10 ft y"" 40 
For ceili!'lg height> 20, y;;;; 0 
For Sl units. 1 It "" 0.3 t m. 

FIGURE 11.2.3.2.3.1 Design Area Reduction for Quick-Response Sprinklers. 
Revise Section 11.2.3.2.3.2 as follows: 

11.2.3.2.3.2 The number of sprinklers in the design area shall never be less than seven. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE REFERENCED STANDARDS 
NFPA-continued 
Revise Section 12.1.1.2 as follows: 

12.1.1.2 Early suppression fast-response (ESFR) sprinklers shall not be used in buildings with automatic heat or smoke vents unless the vents use a standard-response operating mechanism with a minimum temperature rating of360°F ( I82"C) or I00°F (56°C) above the operating temperature ofthe sprinklers, whichever is higher. 
Add Section 24.1(5) 

24.1 Approval of Sprinkler Systems and Private Fire Service Mains. The installing contractor shall do the following: 
(1) 	
Notify the authority having jurisdiction and the property owner or property owner's authmized 
representative of the time and date testing will be performed. 


(2) 	
Perform all required testing (see Section 24.2). 

(3) 	
Complete and sign the appropriate contractor's material and test certificate(s) (see Figure 24.1). 

(4) 	
Remove all caps and straps prior to placing the sprinkler system in service. 


(5) Upon system acceptance by the authority having jurisdiction a label prescribed by California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Chapter 5 shall be affixed to each system riser. 
Revise Section 24.4(2) and Add Section 24.4(3) as follows: 
24.4 Instructions. 
The installing contractor shall provide the property owner or the property owner's authorized representative with 
the following: 

(1) 	All literature and instructions provided by the manufacturer describing proper operation and 
maintenance of any equipment and devices installed. 

(2) 	
NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, testing, and maintenance ofWater-Based Fire Protection 
Systems, 2006 California Edition 


(3) 
California Code ofRegulations, Title I9, Chapter 5, "Fire Extinguishing Systems." Add sentence at the end ofSection 24.5.1 as follows: 


24.5.1 "Pipe schedule systems shall be provided with a sign indicating that the system was designed and installed as a pipe schedule system and the hazard classification(s) included in the design." 
Revise Section 24.5.2(3) and Add Sections 24.5.2(7) to (14) as follows: 
24.5.2 The sign shall include the following information: 
(3) 	Required flow and pressure of the system at the base of the riser. 
(7) 	
Required flow and pressure ofthe system at the water supply source. 

(8) 	
Required flow and pressure ofthe system at the discharge side ofthe fire pump where afire pump is installed. 

(9) 	
Type or types and number ofsprinklers or nozzles installed including the orifice size, temperature 
rating, orientation, K-Factor, sprinkler identification number (SIN) for sprinkler heads when 
applicable, and response type. 



(I 0) The minimum discharge flow rate and pressure required from the hydraulically most demanding 
sprinkler. 

(II) 	The required pressure settings for pressure reducing valves. 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
(
12) For deluge sprinkler systems, the required flow and pressure at the hydraulically most demanding sprinkler or nozzle. 

(
13) The protection area per sprinkler, based on the hydraulic calculations. 

(
14) The edition ofNFPA 13 to which the system was designed and installed. 


Revise Section 24.6.1 as follows: 

24.6.1 California Edition NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance ofWater-Based Fire Protection Systems. 
13D--13 Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One-and 
II 

Two-family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes ...............................903.3.1.3, 903.3.5.1.1 

*NFPA 13D, Amended Sections as follows: 
Add a new definition as 3.3.9.1.1 and related annex note to read as follows: 
3.3.9.1.1*Premixed Antifreeze Solution. A mixture of an antifreeze material with water that is prepared and factory-mixed by the manufacturer with a quality control procedure in place that ensures that the antifreeze solution remains homogeneous. 
A.3.3.9.1.1 Where a tank is used as the water supply for the sprinkler system, the tank is not permitted to be filled with antifreeze. 
Revise 4.1.4 and related annex note to read as follows: 
4.1.4* Antifreeze Systems. 

A.4.1.4 Sampling from the top and bottom of the system helps to determine if the solution has settled. Antifreeze solutions are heavier than water. If the antifreeze compound is separating from the water due to poor mixing, it will exhibit a higher concentration in the lower portion of the system than in the upper portions of the system. If the concentration is acceptable near the top, but too low near the water connection, it may mean that the system is becoming diluted near the water supply. If the concentration is either too high or too low in both the samples, it may mean that the wrong concentration was added to the system. 
On an annual basis, test samples should be drawn from test valve Bas shown in Figure 8.3.3.2.1(1), especially if the water portion of the system has been drained for maintenance or repairs. A small hydrometer can be used so that a small sample is sufficient. Where water appears at valve B, or where the sample indicates that the solution has become weakened, the entire system should be emptied and refilled with acceptable solution as previously described. 
Where systems are drained in order to be refilled, it is not typically necessary to drain drops that are less than 36 inches in length. Most systems with drops have insufficient volume to cause a problem, even if slightly higher concentration solutions collect in the drops. For long drops with significant volume, consideration should be given to draining drops if there is evidence that unacceptably high concentrations of antifreeze have collected in these long drops. 
When emptying and refilling antifreeze solutions, every attempt should be made to recycle the old solution with the antifreeze manufacturer rather than discarding it. 
4.1.4.1 Annual Antifreeze Solution Test and Replacement Procedure. 
4.1.4.1.1 Samples of antifreeze solution should be collected by qualified individuals in accordance with 
4.1.4.1.1.1 or 4.1.4.1.1.2 on an annual basis. 
4.1.4.1.1.1 The system shall be drained to verify that (a) the solution is in compliance with 8.3.3, and (b) the solution provides the necessary freeze protection. Solution samples shall be taken near the beginning and near the end of the draining process. 
4.1.4.1.1.2* Solution samples shall be taken at the highest practical elevation and the lowest practical elevation of the system. 
A.4.1.4.1.1.2 If not already present, test connections (valves) for collection of solution samples should be installed at the highest and lowest practical locations of the system or portion of the system containing antifreeze solution. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
NFPA-continued 

4.1.4.1.2 The two samples collected in accordance with the procedures specified in 4.1.4.1.1.1 or 4.1.4.1.1.2 shall be tested to verify that the specific gravity of both samples is similar and that the solution is in compliance with 8.3.3. The specific gravity of each solution shall be checked using a hydrometer with a suitable scale or a refractometer having a scale calibrated for the antifreeze solution. 
4.1.4.1.3* If concentrations of the two samples collected in accordance with the procedures above are similar and in compliance with 8.3.3, then (a) the solution drained in accordance with 4.1.4.1.1.1 can be used to refill the system, or (b) the existing undrained solution tested in accordance with 4.1.4.1.1.2 shall be permitted to continue to be used. If the two samples are not similar and not in compliance with 8.3.3, then a solution in compliance with 8.3.3 shall be used to refill the system. 
A.4.1.4.1.3 In the past, for some existing systems subject to extremely low temperatures, antifreeze solutions with concentrations greater than what is now permitted by NFPA 13D were used. Such high concentrations of antifreeze are no longer permitted. In situations where extremely low temperatures are anticipated, refilling the fire sprinkler system with a concentration of antifreeze solution currently permitted by the standard might not provide sufficient freeze protection without additional measures. Such measures might include converting the antifreeze system to another type of sprinkler system. 
4.1.4.1.4 A tag shall be attached to the riser indicating the date the antifreeze solution was tested. The tag shall also indicate the type and concentration of antifreeze solution (by volume) with which the system is filled, the date the antifreeze was replaced (if applicable), the name of the contractor that tested and/or replaced the antifreeze solution, the contractor's license number, a statement indicating if the entire system was drained and replaced with antifreeze, and a warning to test the concentration of the antifreeze solutions at yearly intervals per NFPA 13D. 
6.2* Water Supply Sources. When the requirements of6.2.2 are met, the following water supply sources shall be considered to be acceptable by this standard: 
(1) 
A connection to a reliable waterworks system with or without an automatically operated pump. 

(2) 	
An elevated tank. 


(3) 	
A pressure tank designed to American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standards for a 
pressure vessel with a reliable pressure source. 


(4) 	
A stored water source with an automatically operated pump. 

(5) 	
A well with a pump of sufficient capacity and pressure to meet the sprinkler system demand. The stored water requirement of 6.1.2 or 6.1.3 shall be permitted to be a combination of the water in the well (including the refill rate) plus the water in the holding tank if such tank can supply the sprinkler system. 


6.2.2 Where a well, pump, tank or combination thereof is the source of supply for a fire sprinkler system, the water supply shall serve both domestic and fire sprinkler systems, and the following shall be met: 
(1) 	
A test connection shall be provided downstream of the pump that creates a flow of water equal to the smallest sprinkler on the system. The connection shall return water to the tank. 

(2) 	
Any disconnecting means for the pump shall be approved. 

(3) 	
A method for refilling the tank shall be piped to the tank. 

(4) 	
A method of seeing the water level in the tank shall be provided without having to open the tank. 

(5) 	
The pump shall not be permitted to sit directly on the floor. 


6.2.2.1 Where afire sprinkler system is supplied by a stored water source with an automatically operated means ofpressurizing the system other than an electric pump, the water supply may serve the sprinkler system only. 
6.2.4 Where a water supply serves both domestic and fire sprinkler systems, 5 gpm ( 19 Umin) shall be added to the sprinkler system demand at the point where the systems are connected, to determine the size of common piping and the size of the total water supply requirements where no provision is made to prevent flow into the domestic water system upon operation ofa sprinkler. 
Add an asterisk to 8.3.3 and add a new A.8.3.3 to read as follows: 
8.3.3* Antifreeze Systems. 

A.8.3.3 Where protection of pipes from freezing is a concern, options other than antifreeze are available. Such alternatives include running the piping in warm spaces, tenting insulation over pipe, dry-pipe systems, and preaction systems. 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
Revise 8.3.3.2.1 to read as follows: 

8.3.3.2.1* Unless pennitted by 8.3.3.2.1.1, antifreeze solutions shall be limited to premixed antifreeze solutions of glycerine (chemically pure or United States Pharmacopoeia 96.5%) at a maximum concentration of 50% by volume, propylene glycol at a maximum concentration of 40% by volume, or other solutions listed specifically for use in fire protection systems. 
Add a new 8.3.3.2.1.1 to read as follows: 

8.3.3.2.1.1. For existing systems, antifreeze solutions shall be limited to premixed antifreeze solutions of glycerine (chemically pure or United States Pharmacopoeia 96.5%) at a maximum concentration of 50% by volume, propylene glycol at a maximum concentration of 40% by volume, or other solutions listed specifically for use in fire protection systems. 
Delete 8.3.3.2.2 and 8.3.3.2.3 and related Annex material A.8.3.3.2.3. 
Move Table 8.3.3.2.3 to the annex and renumber as Table A.7.6.2.1 while deleting the rows in the table dealing with glycerine and 40% water, glycerine and 30% water, propylene glycol and 50% water and propylene glycol and 40% water. Add an annex note so that the annex and Table would appear as follows: 
A.8.3.3.2.1 See Table A.7.6.2.1. 

TABLE A.7.6.2.1 PROPERTIES OF GLYCERIN AND PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
MATERIAL  SOLUTION (by volume)  SPECIFIC GRAVITY AT 60°F (15.6°C)  FREEZING POINT  
OF I oc  
Glycerin (C.P. or U.S.P. grade)  50% water  !.145  -20.9 I -29.4  
Hydrometer scale 1.000 to 1.200  
Propylene glycol  60% water  1.034  -6 I -2!.1  
Hydrometer scale 1.000 to 1.200 (subdivisions 0.002)  

C.P.: Chemically Pure; U.S.P.: United States Pharmacopoeia 96.5%. 
Renumber 8.3.3.2.3.1 to 8.3.3.2.2. 

8.3.3.2.2 The concentration of antifreeze solutions shall be limited to the minimum necessary for the anticipated minimum temperature. 
Delete 8.3.3.2.4, 8.3.3.2.5 and Table 8.3.3.2.5. 
Renumber 8.3.3.2.6 as 8.3.3.2.3 and renumber A.8.3.3.2.6 as A.8.3.3.2.3. Also renumber Figure A.8.3.3.2.6 as Figure A.8.3.3.2.3. 
8.3.3.2.3* An antifreeze solution with a freezing point below the expected minimum temperature for the locality shall be installed. 
A.8.3.3.2.3 Beyond certain limits, an increased proportion of antifreeze does not lower the freezing point of the solution (see Figure A.8.3.3.2.3). Glycerine, diethylene glycol, ethylene glycol, and propylene glycol never should be used without mixing with water in the proper proportions, because these materials tend to thicken near 32°F (0°C). 
Renumber 8.3.3.2. 7 as 8.3.3.2.4 and revise to read as follows: 
8.3.3.2.4 The specific gravity of the antifreeze shall be checked by a hydrometer with a scale having 0.002 subdivisions in accordance with Figure 8.3.3.2.4(a) and 8.3.3.2.4(b). 
Renumber Figure 8.3.3.2.3(a) as Figure 8.3.3.2.4(a) and delete the 50% curve. 
Renumber Figure 8.3.3.2.3(b) as Figure 8.3.3.2.4(b) and delete the 60% and 70% curves. 
8.6.4* Sprinklers shall not be required in detached garages, open attached porches, carports with no habitable 

space above, and similar structures. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
NFPA-continued 
II  13R-J3  Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Residential Occupancies up to and Including Four Stories in Height as amended ...............903.3.1.2, 903.3.5.1.1, 903.3.5.1.2, 903.4  
*NFPA 13R, Amended Sections as follows:  
Revise Section 2.2 and add publications as follows:  
2.2 NFPA Publications.  
NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance ofWater-Based Fire Protection Systems, California edition.  2006  
Add Section 6.3.5 as follows:  
6.3.5 Instructions. The installing contractor shall provide the property owner or the property owner's authorized representative with the following:  
( 1)  All literature and instructions provided by the manufacturer describing proper operation and maintenance ofany IX}Uipment and devices installed.  
(2)  NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance ofWater-Based Fire Protection Systems 2006 California Edition and California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Chapter 5.  
( 3)  Once the system is accepted by the authority having jurisdiction a label as prescribed by California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Chapter 5, shall be affixed to each system riser.  
Add new Sections 6.6.8 as follows:  
6.6.8 Sprinklers shall be permitted to be omitted for following structures:  
( 1)  Solar photovoltaic panel structures with no use underneath. Signs may be provided, as determined by the enforcing agency prohibiting any use underneath, including storage.  
(2)  Solar photovoltaic (PV) panels supported by framing that have sufficient uniformly distributed and unobstructed openings throughout the top ofthe array (horizontal plane) to allow heat and gases to escape, as determined by the enforcing agency.  
14-13  Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems, as amended ............ .905.2, 905.3.4, 905.4.2, 905.6.2, 905.8  
*NFPA 14, Amended Sections as follows:  
Replace Section 6.3.7.1  
6.3.7.1 System water supply valves, isolation control valves, and other valves in fire mains shall be supervised in an approved manner in the open position by one ofthe following methods:  
( 1)  Where a building has a fire alarm system or a sprinkler monitoring system installed, the valve shall be supervised by:  
(a)  a central station, proprietary, or remote supervising station,  or  
(b)  a local signaling service that initiates an audible signal at a constantly attended location.  
(2)  Where a building does not have afire alarm system or a sprinkler monitoring system installed, the valve shall be supervised by:  
(a)  Locking the valves in the open position, or  
(b)  Sealing ofvalves and an approved weekly recorded inspection where valves are located within fenced enclosures under the control ofthe owner.  
11  15-12 16-11 17-09 17A-09 20-13  Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protection ..........................................5704.2.9.2.3 Installation of Foam-water Sprinkler and Foam-water Spray Systems .......................904.7, 904.11 Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems ....................................Table 901.6.1, 904.6, 904.11 Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems ....................................Table 901.6.1, 904.5, 904.11 Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection ...............................913.1, 913.2, 913.5.1  

REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
22-13 	Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection ................................................... 507.2.2 

II 

Installation of Private Fire Service Mains and Their Appurtenances .......................507.2.1, 2809.5 

*NFPA 24, Amended Sections as follows: Amend Section 4.2.1 Section 4.2.1. Installation work shall be done by fully experienced and responsible contractors. Contractors 
shall be appropriately licensed in the State of California to install private fire service mains and their 
appurtenances. 
Revise Section 4.2.2 as follows: 

4.2.2 Installation or modification of private fire service mains shall not begin until plans are approved and appropriate permits secured from the authority having jurisdiction. 
Add Section 4.2.2.1 as follows: 

4.2.2.1 As approved by the authority having jurisdiction, emergency repair of existing system may start immediately, with plans being submitted to the authority having jurisdiction within 96 hours from the start ofthe repair work. 
Revise Section 5.9.1.2 as follows: 

Section 5.9.1.2 Fire department connections shall be properly supported and protected from mechanical damage. 
Revise Section 5.9.5.1 as follows: 

5.9.5.1 Fire department connections shall be on the street side of buildings and as approved by the authority having jurisdiction. 
Revise Section 6.5.1 as follows: 

6.5.1 Private fire service main systems shall have sectional control valves at appropriate points in order to permit sectionalizing the system in the event of a break or for the making of repairs or extensions. 
Add Section 6.5.2.1-6.5.2.3 

6.5.2.1 Sectional control valves are not required when the fire service main system serves less than six fire appurtenances. 
6.5.2.2 Sectional control valves shall be indicating valves in accordance with Section 6.7.I.3. 
6.5.2.3 Sectional control valves shall be located so that no more than five fire appurtenances are affected by shut-down of any single portion of the fire service main. Each fire hydrant, fire sprinkler system riser, and standpipe riser shall be considered a separate fire appurtenance. In-rack sprinkler systems shall not be considered as a separate appurtenance. 
6.5.2.4 The number offire appurtenances between sectional control valves is allowed to be modified by the authority having jurisdiction. 
Revise Section 6.6.2 as follows: 

6.6.2 A sectional valve shall be provided at the following locations: 
(1) 	
On each bank where a main crosses a body ofwater 

(2) 	
Outside the building foundation(s) where a main or a section of a main runs under a building 


Revise Section 10.6.5 as follows: 

10.6.5 Pipe joints shall not be located under foundation footings. The pipe under the building or building foundation shall not contain mechanical joints. 
Exceptions: 

I. 	Where allowed in accordance with 10.6.2 
2. 	Alternate designs may be utilized where designed by a registered professional engineer and approved by the enforcing agency. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE REFERENCED STANDARDS 
NFPA-continued 
Revise Section10.9.1 as follows: 

10.9.1 Backfill shall be well tamped in layers or puddle under and around pipes to prevent settlement or lateral movement. Backfill shall consist of clean fill sand or pea gravel to a minimum 6" below and to a minimum of 12" above the pipe and shall contain no ashes, cinders, refuse, organic matter, or other corrosive materials. Other backfill materials and methods are permitted where designed by a registered professional engineer and approved by the enforcing agency. 
II 25-llCA 	California NFPA 25 Edition (Based on the 20IIEdition) 
Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-based Fire Protection Systems ....... 507.5.3, Table 901.6.1, 904.7.1, 912.6, 913.5, 1101.1 30-12 Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code .................... 5703.6.2, 5703.6.2.1, 5704.2.7, 5704.2.7.1, 5704.2.7.2, 5704.2.7.3.2, 5704.2.7.3.6, 5704.2.7.4, 5704.2.7.6, 5704.2.7.7, 5704.2.7.8, 5704.2.7.9, 5704.2.9.3, 5704.2.9 .4, 5704.2.9 .6.1.1, 5704.2.9 .6.1.2, 5704.2.9 .6.1.3, 5704.2.9 .6.1.4, 5704.2.9 .6.1.5, 5704.2.9 .6.2, 5704.2.9 .7.4, 5704.2.1 0.2, 5704.2.11.4, 5704.2.11.5.2, 5704.2.12.1, 5704.3.1, 5704.3.6, Table 5704.3.6.3(1), Table 5704.3.6.3(2), Table 5704.3.6.3(3), 5704.3.7.2.3, 5704.3.8.4, 5706.8.3 30A-12 Code for Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages .....................2301.4, 2301.5, 2301.6, 2306.6.3, 2310.1 30B-11 Manufacture and Storage of Aerosol Products ........5101.1, 5103.1, 5104.1, Table 5104.3.1, Table 5104.3.2, Table 5104.3.2.2, 5104.4.1, 5104.5.2, 5104.6, 5106.2.3, 5106.3.2, Table 5106.4,5106.5.1, 5106.5.6, 5107.1 11 31-11 Installation of Oil-burning Equipment .......................................603.1.7, 603.3.1, 603.3.3 32-07 Dry Cleaning Plants, as amended ...........................................2IOI.I.I, 2I07.1, 2107.3 
> 	*NFPA 32, Amended Sections as follows: 
2.2 NFPA Publications. 

> 	4.4.1.1 General building and structure design and construction shall be in accordance with California Building Code. 
> 	4.4.4 Means of Egress. Means of egress shall conform with the provisions of California Building Code. 
4.6.2 Automatic Sprinkler Systems. Where required by this standard, automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, and periodically inspected, tested, and maintained in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Chapter 5. 
4.6.4 Portable Fire Extinguishers. Suitable numbers and types of portable fire extinguishers shall be installed and maintained throughout the drycleaning plant in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title I9, Division I, Chapter 3. 
7.3.2 Electrical Installations. Electrical equipment and wiring in a Type II drycleaning room shall comply with the provisions of California Electrical Code, for use in Class I, Division 2 hazardous locations. 
33-11 Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials ................................2404.3.2 
34-11 Dipping and Coating Processes Using Flammable or Combustible Liquids ...............2405.3, 2405.4.1.1 
35-11 Manufacture of Organic Coatings ...................................................2901.3, 2905.4 

II 37-IO Installation and Use ofStationary Combustion Engines and Gas Turbines ............................. . 40-11 Storage and Handling of Cellulose Nitrate Film ............................................... 306.2 II 51-13 Design and Installation of Oxygen-fuel Gas 
II 
Systems for Welding, Cutting and Allied Processes ............................ 3501.5, 3507.1, 3509.1 51A-12 Acetylene Cylinder Charging Plants ....................................................... 3508.1 52-13 Vehicular Gaseous Fuel System Code ..................................................... 5301.1 54-12 National Fuel Gas Code ..................................................................... . 55-13 Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids Code ..................................... .2309.2.1, 5501.1, 5801.1, 6301.1 58-11 Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code .........................603.4.2.1.1, 6101.1, 6103.1, 6103.2.1, 6103.2.1.2, 6103.2.1.7, 6103.2.2, 6104.1, 6104.3.2, 6104.4, 6106.2, 6106.3, 6107.2, 6108.1, 6108.2, 6109.11.2, 6111.3 59A-I3 Production, Storage and Handling of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) ........................5301.1, 5501.1 61-13 Prevention of Fires and Dust Explosions in Agricultural and Food Processing Facilities ......... Table 2204.1 69-08 Explosion Prevention Systems ........................................... 911.1, 911.3, Table 2204.1 
> 
520 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
National Electrical Code ..................................603.1.3, 603.1.7, 603.5.2, 604.2.15.1, 605.3, 

605.4, 605.9, 605.11, 606.16, 610.5, 904.3.1, 907.6.1, 909.11, 

909.12.1, 909.16.3, 1208.2, 2006.3.4, 2104.2.3, Table 2204.1, 2305.4, 
2308.8.1.2.4, 2309.2.3, 2311.3.1, 2311.8.1.2.4, 2403.2.1, 2403.2.1.1, 
2403.2.1.4, 2403.2.5, 2403.12.6.1, 2404.9.4, 2404.15.7, 2504.5, 2603.2.1, 
2606.4, 2703.7.1, 2703.7.2, 2703.7.3, 2803.4, 2904.1, 3304.7, 5003.7.3, 5303.7.6, 
5303.8, 5303.16.11, 5303.16.14, 5503.6, 5503.6.2, 5703.1, Table 5703.1.1, 5703.1.3, 
5704.2.8.12, 5704.2.8.17, 5706.2.8, 5803.1.5, 5803.1.5.1,5807.1.10, 5906.5.5, 
5906.5.6, 6004.2.2.8, 6109.15.1 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, as amended ........ 508.1.5, Table 901.6.1, 903.4.1, 904.3.5, 907.2, 1 1 
907.2.6, 907.2.9.3, 907.2.11,907.2.13.2, 907.3, 907.3.3, 907.3.4, 

907.5.2.1.2, 907.5.2.2, 907.6, 907.6.1, 907.6.2, 907.6.5, 907.7, 907.7.1, 
907.7.2, 907.8, 907.8.2, 907.8.5, IlOl.l 
*NFPA 72, Amended Sections as follows: 

10.3.1 Equipment constructed and installed in conformity with this Code shall be listed for the purpose for which it is used. Fire alarm systems and components shall be California State Fire Marshal approved and listed in accordance with California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1. 
10.3.3 All devices and appliances that receive their power from the initiating device circuit or signaling line circuit of a control unit shall be California State Fire Marshal listed for use with the control unit. 
10.7.1 Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction, ECS priority signals when evaluated by 1 1 stakeholders through risk analysis in accordance with 24.4.2.2 shall be permitted to take precedence over all other signals. 
12.3.7 -(4) Where the vertically run conductors are contained in a 2-hour rated cable assembly, or enclosed 1 1 (installed) in a 2-hour rated enclosure or a listed circuit integrity (C.I.) cable, which meets or exceeds a 2-hour fire-resistive rating. 
14.4.6.1 Testing. Household fire alarm systems shall be tested in accordance with the manufacturer's published 1 1 instructions according to the methods ofTable 14.4.2.2. 
17.15 Fire Extinguisher Monitoring Device. A fire extinguisher monitoring device shall indicate those conditions for a specific fire extinguisher required by California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 1, Section 574.2 (c) and California Fire Code to afire alarm control unit. 
21.3.6 Smoke detectors shall not be installed in unsprinklered elevator hoistways unless they are installed to activate the elevator hoistway smoke relief equipment or where required by Chapter 30 of the California Building Code. 
23.8.5.1.2 Where connected to a supervising station, fire alarm systems employing automatic fire detectors or waterflow detection devices shall include a manual fire alarm box to initiate a signal to the supervising station. 
Exception: Fire alarm systems dedicated to elevator recall control, supervisory service and fire sprinkler monitoring. 
23.8.5.4.1 Systems equipped with alarm verification features shall be permitted under the following conditions: 
(1) 	
The alarm verification feature is not initially enabled unless conditions or occupant activities that are 
expected to cause nuisance alarms are anticipated in the area that is protected by the smoke detectors. 
Enabling of the alarm verification feature shall be protected by password or limited access. 


(2) 	
A smoke detector that is continuously subjected to a smoke concentration above alarm threshold does 
not delay the system functions of Sections 10.6 through 10.13, 23.8.1.1, or 21.2.1 by more than 30 
seconds. 


(3) 	
Actuation of an alarm-initiating device other than a smoke detector causes the system functions of 4.4.3, 6.8.1.1, or 6.16.2.1 without additional delay. 

(
4) 	The current status of the alarm verification feature is shown on the record of completion (see Figure 
4.5.2.1, item 10). 



(5) 	Operation ofa patient room smoke detector in 1-2 and R-2.1 occupancies shall not include an alarm 
verification feature. 

29.3.1 All devices, combinations of devices, and equipment to be installed in conformity with this chapter shall be approved and listed by the California State Fire Marshal for the purposes for which they are intended. 1 1 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
> 
> 
II 

II 
II 

II 
II 
>II >II 
II 

II 
II 
80-13 
82-09 
85-11 
86-11 
92-12 92A-12 99-12 
101-12 
105-13 
110-13 111-13 120--10 160-11 
170-09 
204-12 211-13 
241-13 
253-11 
260-13 
261-13 
265-11 
286-11 
289-13 303-11 318-12 385-12 
400-13 
407-12 
409-11 
484-12 
495-13 
498-13 505-13 
654-13 
655-12 664-12 701-10 
703-12 704-12 
522 
NFPA-continued 

29.5.2.1.1*Smoke and Heat Alarms. Unless exempted by applicable laws, codes, or standards, smoke or heat alarms used to provide a fire-warning function, and when two or more alarms are installed within a dwelling unit, suite of rooms, or similar area, shall be arranged so that the operation of any smoke or heat alarm causes all alarms within these locations to sound. 
Exception to 29.5.2./.1 not adopted by the SFM 

29.7.2.1 The alarm verification feature shall not be used for household fire warning equipment. 
29.7.6.7.1 The alarm verification feature shall not be used for household fire warning equipment. 
Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives ........................................ 703.1.3, 1 008.1.4.3 
Incinerators, Waste and Linen Handling Systems and Equipment . ................................ 603.8 
Boiler and Combustion System Hazards Code .......................................... Table 2204.1 
Ovens and Furnaces ................................................................... 3001.1 

Standard for Smoke Control Systems ........................................................... . 
Standard for Smoke-Control Systems Utilizing Barriers and Pressure Differences ....................... . 
Health Care Facilities Code ............................................................. 5306.4 
Life Safety Code ............................................................ 807.4.3.2, 1028.6.2 
Installation of Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives ...........................703.1.2 
Emergency and Standby Power Systems ........................... 604.1, 604.3, 604.4, 913.5.2, 913.5.3 
Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and Standby Power Systems ..................... 604.1, 604.3, 604.4 
Fire Prevention and Control in Coal Mines ............................................ Table 2204.1 
Flame Effects Before an Audience ........................................................308.3.2 

Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols .................................. 907.1.2, 1024.2.6.1 

Standard for Smoke and Heat Venting .......................................... Table 901.6.1, 910.5 Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents and Solid Fuel-burning Appliances ................................. 603.2 Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations ............................... 3301.1 Standard Test for Critical Radiant Flux of Floor Covering Systems Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source ........................ 804.3.1, 804.3.2, 804.4 Methods of Tests and Classification System for Cigarette Ignition Resistance of Components of Upholstered Furniture .............. 805.1.1.1, 805.2.1.1, 805.3.1.1, 805.4.1.1 Method of Test for Determining Resistance of Mock-up Upholstered Furniture Material Assemblies to Ignition by Smoldering Cigarettes ................ 805.2.1.1, 805.3.1.1, 805.4.1.1 Method of Fire Tests for Evaluating Room Fire Growth Contribution of Textile Wall Coverings in Full Height Panels and Walls ................. 803.5.1, 803.5.1.1, 803.5.1.2, 803.5.2, 803.6 Standard Method of Fire Tests for Evaluating Contribution of Wall and Ceiling Interior Finish to Room Fire Growth ...................803.1, 803.1.2, 803.1.2.1, 803.5.1, 803.5.2, 803.6 Standard Method of Fire Test for Individual Fuel Packages ....................... 806.2, 807 .4.2.1, 808.3 Fire Protection Standard for Marinas and Boatyards ...................... 905.3.7, 3603.5, 3603.6, 3604.2 Standard for the Protection of Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities ............................. 2703.16 Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids ......................5706.5.4.5, 5706.6, 5706.6.1 Hazardous Materials Code . .................................................................. . Aircraft Fuel Servicing ...........................................................2006.2, 2006.3 Aircraft Hangars .......................................... 914.8.2, Table 914.8.2, 914.8.2.1, 914.8.5 Combustible Metals .............................................................. Table2204.1 Explosive Materials Code ................................202, 911.1, 911.4, 5601.1.1, 5601.1.5, 5604.2, 5604.6.2, 5604.6.3, 5604.7.1, 5605.1, 5606.1, 5606.5.2.1, 5606.5.2.3, 5607.1, 5607.9,5607.11,3307.15 Safe Havens and Interchange Lots for Vehicles Transporting Explosives .........................5601.1.2 Powered Industrial Trucks, Including Type Designations, Areas of Use, Maintenance and Operation ...............................................5003.7.3 Prevention of Fire and Dust Explosions from the Manufacturing, Processing and Handling of Combustible Particulate Solids ............................. Table 2204.1 Prevention of Sulfur Fires and Explosions ............................................. Table 2204.1 Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Wood Processing and Woodworking Facilities .....Table 2204.1, 2805.3 Methods of Fire Tests for Flame-propagation of Textiles and Films .................. 806.2, 807.1, 807 .1.2, 807.2, 807.4.2.2, 2603.5, 3104.2 Fire Retardant Treated Wood and Fire Retardant Coatings for Building Materials .................... 803.4 Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response .................... 606.7, 202, 3104.2, 5003.2.2.1, 5003.2.2.2, 5003.5, 5003.10.2, 5005.1.10, 5005.2.1.1, 5005.4.4, 5503.4.1, 5704.2.3.2, F10l.l, F101.2 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA-continued 
720-12 Standard for the Installation ofCarbon Monoxide (CO) I I 
Warning Equipment in Dwelling Units ...................................... 908.7, 908.7.1, 1103.9 
750-10 Water Mist Fire Protection Systems ................................................. Table 901.6.1 
1122-13 Model Rocketry ..................................................................... 5601.1.4 1 I 
1123-10 Fireworks Display ..................................... 202, 5604.2, 5608.1, 5608.2.2, 5608.5, 5608.6 
1124-13 Manufacture, Transportation, Storage and Retail Sales I I 

ofFireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles ......................202, 5604.2, 5605.1, 5605.3, 5605.4, 5605.5 
1125-12 Manufacture of Model Rocket and High Power Rocket Motors ................................ 5601.1.4 
1126-11 Use of Pyrotechnics Before a Proximate Audience ..........5604.2, 5605.1, 5608.1, 5608.2.2, 5608.4, 5608.5 
1127-13 High Power Rocketry ................................................................. 5601.1.4 I I 
1142-12 Water Supply for Suburban and Rural Fire Fighting .......................................... B103.3 
2001-12 Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems as amended* ............................Table 901.6.1, 904.10 1 I 

*NFPA 2001, Amended Sections as follows: 
4.3.5.1.1 Alarms signals from the fire extinguishing system shall not interfere with the building fire alarm signal. 
4.3.5.2.1. The lens on visual appliances shall be "red" in color. 
Exception: Other lens colors are permitted where approved by the enforcing agency. 
State ofCalifornia 
Department ofForestry and Fire Protection Office ofthe State Fire Marshal 

SFM 
P.O. Box 944246 Sacramento, CA 94246-2460 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

SFM 12-3  Releasing Systems for Security Bars in Dwellings . ................................................  .  
SFM 12-7-3  Fire-testing Furnaces . ......................................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-1  Exterior Wall Siding and Sheathing . ...........................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-2  Exterior Window ..........................................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-3  Under Eave...............................................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-4  Decking ................................................................................. .  
SFM 12-7A-4A  Decking Alternate Method A .................................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-5  Ignition Resistant Building Material ...........................................................  .  
SFM 12-7A-4  Decking ................................................................................. .  
SFM 12-8-100  Room Fire Tests for Wall and Ceiling Materials .................................................. .  
SFM 12-10-1  Power Operated Exit Doors .................................................................. .  
SFM 12-10-2  Single Point Latching or Locking Devices . ......................................................  .  
SFM 12-10-3  Emergency Exit and Panic Hardware ..........................................................  .  

(The Office ofthe State Fire Marshal standards referred to above are found in the California Code ofRegulations, Title 24, Part 12.) 
UL 
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. 

333 Pfingsten Road Northbrook, IL 60062 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

13-96  Power-limited Circuit Cables ................................................................ .  
10C-09  Positive Pressure Fire Tests ofDoor Assemblies .........................................1 008.1.1 0.1  
30-95  Metal Safety Cans-with Revisions through July 2009 .................... 5003.9.10, 5005.1.10, 5705.2.4  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE REFERENCED STANDARDS 
> 
II 
UL-continued 

Manually Actuated Signaling Boxes-with Revisions through February 2, 2005 as amended.* 
*Amend Section 14.1.5 as follows: 

14.1.5 A signaling box having a glass panel, disc, rod or similar part that must be broken to operate it for a signal or for access to its actuating means shall satisfactorily complete five part-breaking operations using the means provided with the box, without jamming of the mechanism or other interference by broken particles. It shall be practicable to remove and replace the broken parts. A signaling box shall not have a glass panel, disc, rod or similar part requiring a striking action by grasping a tool to operate it for a signal. The force required to activate controls shall be no greater than 5 pounds (22 N) offorce. 
*Add Appendix B chapter to UL 38 (1999) as follows: 
AppendixB, 

14.1.5 Operation. Controls and operating mechanisms shall be operable with one hand and shall not require tight grasping, pinching or twisting ofthe wrist. 
58-96 Steel Underground Tanks for Flammable and 
Combustible Liquids-with Revisions through July 1998 ...............................5704.2.13.1.5 
80-07 Steel Tanks for Oil-Burner Fuels and Other Combustible Liquids ................................ 610.2 
142-06 Steel Aboveground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids ....................... 610.2, 2306.2.3 
193-04 Alarm Valves for Fire-Protection Service ....................................................... . 
199-95 Automatic Sprinklers for Fire Protection Service-with Revisions through August 19, 2005 . ............... . 
199E-04 Outline of Investigation for Fire Testing of Sprinklers and Water Spray Nozzles 

for Protection of Deep Fat Fryers .................................................... 904.11.4.1 
217-06 Single and Multiple Station Smoke Alarms-with Revisions through April 2010 ..................907.2.11 

228-97 Door Closers/Holders, with or without Integral Smoke Detectors-
with Revisions through January 26, 2006 . ..................................................... . 
260-04 Dry Pipe and Deluge Valves for Fire Protection Service ............................................ . 
262-04 Gate Valves for Fire Protection Service . ........................................................ . 
268-09 Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Signaling Systems ........................................ 907 .2.6.2 
268A-98 Smoke Detectors for Duct Application-with Revisions through October 22, 2003 ....................... . 
294-99 Access Control System Units-with Revisions through 2009 ................................ 1008.1.9.8 
300-05 Fire Testing of Fire Extinguishing Systems for Protection of Commercial Cooking Equipment ........ 904.11 
305-97 Panic Hardware-with Revisions through January 2007 ................................... 1008.1.10.1 
312-04 Check Valves for Fire-Protection Service ....................................................... . 
325-02 Door, Drapery, Gate, Louver and Window Operators and Systems-with 

Revisions through February 2010 ............................................503.5, 503.6, D103.5 

346-05 Wateiflow Indicators for Fire Protective Signaling Systems ......................................... . 
464-03 Audible Signal Appliances-with Revisions through October 10, 2003 . ................................ . 
497B-04 Protectors for Data Communication and Fire Alarm Circuits ........................................ . 
521-99 Heat Detectors for Fire Protective Signaling Systems-with Revisions through July 20, 2005 .............. . 
539-00 Single-and Multiple-Station Heat Detectors-with Revisions through August 15, 2005 ................... . 
632-00 Electrically Actuated Transmitters . ............................................................ . 
710B-04 Recirculating Systems-with Revisions through December 2009 ................................ 904.11 
723-08 Standard for Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials ........... 202, 803.5.1, 803.5.2, 

803.6, 803.9, 804.1, 804.2.4 753--04 Alarm Accessories for Automatic Water Supply Valves for Fire Protection Service ...................... . 790-04 Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Roof Coverings-
with Revisions through October 2008 ...............................................317 .2, 317.3 
791-06 Standard for Residential Incinerators . ...................................................... 603.8 
793-08 Automatically Operated Roof Vents for Smoke and Heat ......................................910.3.1 
813-96 Commercial Audio Equipment-with Revisions through December 7, 1999 . ............................ . 
864-03 Control Units and Accessories for Fire 

Alarm Systems-with Revisions through February 2010 ............. 909.12, 2311.7.2.1.1, 6004.2.2.10.1 

*Amend No. 55.1 as follows: 

RETARD-RESET-RESTART PERIOD-MAXIMUM 30 SECONDS -No alarm obtained from control unit. Maximum permissible time is 30 seconds. 
*Amend Section 55.2.2 as follows: 

Where an alarm verification feature is provided, the maximum retard-reset-restart period before an alarm signal can be confirmed and indicated at the control unit, including any control unit reset time and the power-up time for the detector to become operational for alarm, shall not exceed 30 seconds. (The balance ofthe section text is to remain unchanged). 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 

UL-continued 
*Add Section 55.2.9 as follows: 

Smoke detectors connected to an alarm verification feature shall not be used as releasing devices. 
Exception: Smoke detectors which operate their releasing function immediately upon alarm actuation independent ofalarm verification feature. 
*Amend Section 89.1.10 as follows: 

The existing text ofthis section is to remain as printed with one editorial amendment as follows: 
THE TOTAL DELAY (CONTROL UNIT PLUS SMOKE DETECTORS) SHALL NOT EXCEED 30 SECONDS. 
(The balance ofthe section text is to remain unchanged). 
900-04 Air Filter Units-with revisions through November 2009 .................................... 2404.7.8 924-06 Standard for Safety Emergency Lighting and Power Equipment-with 
revisions through January 2009 .............................................. 1011.5, 3103.12.6.1 1037-99 Antitheft Alarms and Devices .............................................................506.1 1275-05 Flammable Liquid Storage Cabinets-with Revisions through May 2006 ............5003.8.7.1, 5704.3.2.1.1 1313-93 Standard for Nonmetallic Safety Cans for 
Petroleum Products-with Revisions through August 2007 ................................ 5003.9.10 1315-95 Standard for Safety for Metal Waste Paper Containers-with Revisions through August 2007 ....808.1, 808.2 1316-94 Glass Fiber Reinforced Plastic Underground Storage Tanks for Petroleum Products, 
Alcohols, and Alcohol-gasoline Mixtures-with Revisions through May 2006 .............. 5704.2.13.1.5 1363-07 Relocatable Power Taps-with revisions through October 2009 ................................ 605.4.1 1975-06 Fire Tests for Foamed Plastics Used for Decorative Purpose ............................ 807.4.2.1, 808.3 1994-04 Standard for Luminous Egress Path Marking 
Systems-with Revisions through April2010 ......................1024.2.1, 1024.2.3, 1024.2.4, 1024.4 2017-08 General Purpose Signaling Devices and Systems-with Revisions through October 2009 ....................................... 2311.7.2.1.1, 6004.2.2.10.1 2034-08 Single-and Multiple-station Carbon Monoxide Alarms-with Revisions through February 2009 ................................................. 908.7, 1103.9 2075-04 Standard for Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors-with 
revisions through September 2007 .................................908.7.1, 2311.7 .2.1, 6004.2.2.1 0.1 2079-04 Tests for Fire Resistance of Building Joint Systems-with Revisions through June 2008 ................ 202 2085-97 Protected Above-ground Tanks for Flammable 
and Combustible Liquids-with Revisions through December 1999 ..............202, 2306.2.2, 2306.2.3, 

5704.2.7.4, 5704.2.9.2.3, 5704.2.9.7.5, 5705.3.8.2 2200-98 Stationary Engine Generator Assemblies-with Revisions through December 2009 ................. 604.1.1 2208-05 Solvent Distillation Units-with Revisions through December 2009 ............................ 5705.4.1 2245-06 Below-grade Vaults for Flammable Liquid Storage Tanks ...................................5704.2.8.1 2335-01 Fire Tests of Storage Pallets-with Revisions through March 2010 ............................. 3208.2.1 2360-00 Test Methods for Determining the Combustibility Characteristics 
of Plastics Used in Semi-Conductor Tool Construction-with Revisions 
through June, 2008 ...............................................................2703.10.1.2 

United States Code 
c/o Superintendent of Documents

usc 
U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, DC 20402-9325 

Standard  Referenced  
reference  in code  
number  Title  section number  

18 USC Part 1, Chapter 40 Importation, Manufacture, Distribution and Storage of Explosive Materials .......................... 202 
21 USC Chapter 9 United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. ............................................... .4002.1 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 

APPENDIX 4-SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS BASED ON USE AND OCCUPANCY 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 

* The Califonua Code ofRegulations (CCR), Title 19, DlVIS!On I proviSions that are found m the Califorma Ftre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division I text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX CHAPTER 4 
SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS BASED ON 
USE AND OCCUPANCY 

SECTION425 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENSED 24-HOUR 
CARE FACILITIES IN A GROUP R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4 
[SFM] 

425.1 Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to 24­hour care facilities in a Group R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 occupancy licensed by a governmental agency. 
425.2 General. The provisions in this section shall apply in addition to general requirements in this code. 
425.2.1 Restraint shall not be practiced in a Group R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 occupancies. 
Exception: Occupancies which meet all the require­ments for a Group I-3 occupancy. 

425.2.2 Pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13133, regulations of the state fire marshal pertaining to occupancies classified as Residential Facilities (RF) and Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE) shall apply uniformly throughout the state and no city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county, or fire protection district shall adopt or enforce any ordi­nance or local rule or regulation relating to fire and panic safety which is inconsistent with these regulations. A city, county, city and county, including a charter city or charter county may, pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13143.5, or a fire protection district may, pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Section 13869.7, adopt standards more stringent than those adopted by the state fire mar­shal that are reasonably necessary to accommodate local climate, geological, or topographical conditions relating to roof coverings for Residential-care Facilities for the Elderly. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Exception: Local regulations relating to roof coverings in facilities licensed as a Residential Care Facility for the Elderly (RCFE) in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 13133. 

425.3 Building height and area provisions. 
<

425.3.1 Group R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 shall be constructed in accordance with Table 503 of the California Building Code. 
[California Code ofRegulations, Title 19, Division 1, §3.26] Operators Statement-Group I, R-2.1, R-3.1 and R-4 Occu­pancies. Every person, firm or corporation maintaining or operating any Group I or R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 occupancy shall provide an operators statement in accordance with Section 13132 ofthe Health and Safety Code which reads as follows: 
"13132. Every person, firm or corporation maintain­
ing or operating any facility for the care ofthe mentally 
handicapped shall file a statement with the fire author­
ity having jurisdiction within five days ofthe admission 
or readmission of a patient stating that such patient is 
an ambulatory or a nonambulatory person and enu­
merating the reasons for such classification. Such a 
statement shall also be filed for each existing patient 
within 30 days ofthe effective date ofthis section. 

Any statement required to be filed pursuant to this 
section shall be certified as to its correctness by the 
person attending such patient. 

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corpora­
tion required to file a statement pursuant to this section 
to include false statements therein. Any such act shall 
be in violation of this section and subject to the provi­
sions ofSection 13112." 

425.3.2 Limitations six or less clients. Group R-3.1 occu­pancies where nonambulatory clients are housed above the first story, having more than two stories in height or having more than 3,000 square feet (279m2) offloor area above the first story shall not be of less than 1-hour fire­resistance-rated construction throughout. 
In Group R-3.1 occupancies housing a bedridden client, the client sleeping room shall not be located above or below the first story. 
Exception: Clients who become bedridden as a result of a temporary illness as defined in Health and Safety Code, Sections 1566.45, 1568.0832, and 1569.72. A temporary illness is an illness which per­sists for 14 days or less. A bedridden client may be retained in excess of the 14 days upon approval by the Department of Social Services and may continue to be housed on any story in a Group R-3.1 occu­pancy classified as a licensed residential facility. 

Every licensee admitting or retaining a bedridden resi­dent shall, within 48 hours of the resident's admission or retention in the facility, notify the local fire authority with jurisdiction of the estimated length of time the resident will retain his or her bedridden status in the facility. 
425.3.3 Limitations seven or more clients. Group R-4 occupancies, where nonambulatory clients are housed above the first story and there is more than 3,000 square feet (279 m2) offloor area above the first story or housing more than 16 clients above the first story, shall be con­structed of not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con­struction throughout. 
425.3.4 Nonambulatory elderly clients. Group R-4 occu­pancies housing nonambulatory elderly clients shall be of not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction throughout. 
425.4 Type ofconstruction provisions. 
425.4.1 Group R-2.1, occupancies are not permitted in non-fire-resistance-rated construction, see Health and Safety Code, Section 13131.5. 
425.5 Fire-resistance-rated construction provisions. 
425.5.1 Smoke barriers required. Group R-2.1 and R-4 occupancies licensed as a Residential Care Facility (RCF) with individual floor areas over 6000 square feet (557m2) per floor, shall be provided with smoke barriers, con­structed in accordance with Section 710 of the California Building Code. 
Group R-2.1 occupancies housing bedridden clients shall be provided with smoke barriers constructed in accordance with Section 710 of the California Building Code regardless ofthe number ofclients. 
When smoke barriers are required, the area within a smoke compartment shall not exceed 22,500 square feet (2090 m2) nor shall its travel distance exceed 200 feet ( 60 960 mm). Such smoke barriers shall divide the floor as equally as possible. 
425.5.2 Smoke partitions. Group R-2.1 occupancies where smoke partitions are required, framing shall be covered with noncombustible materials having an approved thermal barrier with an index ofnot less than 15 in accordance with FM 4880, VL 1040, NFPA 286 or UL 1715. 
425.5.3 Independent egress. At least two means of egress shall be provided from each smoke compartment created by smoke barriers. Means of egress may pass through adjacent compartments provided it does not return through the smoke compartment from which means of egress originated. 
425.6 Interior finish provisions. 
425.6.1 Interior wall and ceiling finish. Group R-3.1 occupancies housing a bedridden client shall comply with Interior Wall and Ceiling Finish requirements specified for Group 1-2 occupancies in Table 903.3 ofthe California Building Code. 
425.6.2 Safety padding. Padding material used on walls, floors and ceilings in Group 1 and R-2.1 occupancies shall be ofan approved type tested in accordance with the pro­cedures established by State Fire Marshal Standard 12-8­100, Room Fire Test for Wall and Ceiling Materials, Cali­fornia Code ofRegulations, Title 24, Part 12. 
425.7 Fire Protection system provisions. 
425.7.1 Automatic sprinkler systems in Group R-2.1, R­
3.1 and R-4 occupancies. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed where required in Section 903. 
425.7.2 Fire alarm systems in Group R-2.1 and R-4 occu­pancies. An approved fire alarm system shall be installed where required in Section 907. 
425.7.3 Smoke alarms in Groups R-2.1, R-3.1, and R-4 occupancies. Smoke alarms shall be installed where required in Section 907.2.10 
425.7.4 Hearing impaired. See Section 907.6.2.3 
425.8 Means ofegress provisions. 
425.8.1 General. In addition to the general means of egress requirements ofChapter 10, this section shall apply to Group R-2.1, R-3.1, and R-4 occupancies. 
425.8.2 Number ofexits. 
425.8.2.1 Group R-2.1, R-3.1, and R-4 occupancies shall have a minimum oftwo exits. 
Exception. Ancillary use areas or occupancies shall have egress as required by Section 1021. 
425.8.3 Egress arrangements. 
425.8.3.1 Egress through adjoining dwelling units shall not be permitted. 
425.8.3.2 Group R-3.1 occupancies housing nonam­bulatory clients. In a Group R-3.1 occupancy, bed­rooms used by nonambulatory clients shall have access to at least one ofthe required exits which shall conform to one ofthe following: 
1. 	Egress through a hallway or area into a bedroom in the immediate area which has an exit directly to the exterior and the corridor/hallway is con­structed consistent with the dwelling unit interior 
SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS BASED ON USE AND OCCUPANCY 
walls. The hallway shall be separated from com­mon areas by a solid wood door not less than I 3
/8 
inch (35 mm) in thickness, maintained self-clos­ing or shall be automatic closing by actuation of a smoke detector installed in accordance with Section 7I5.4.8 ofthe California Building Code. 
2. 	Egress through a hallway which has an exit directly to the exterior. The hallway shall be sep­arated from the rest of the house by a wall con­structed consistent with the dwelling unit interior walls and opening protected by a solid wood door not less than I 3inch (35 mm) in thickness,
/8 
maintained self-closing or shall be automatic closing by actuation ofa smoke detector installed in accordance with Section 7I5.4.8 of the Cali­fornia Building Code. 
3. 	
Direct exit from the bedroom to the exterior, such doors shall be of a size as to permit the installa­tion of a door not less than 3 feet (9I4 mm) in width and not less than 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) in height. When installed, doors shall be capable of opening at least 90 degrees and shall be so mounted that the clear width ofthe exit way is not less than 32 inches (813 mm). 

4. 	
Egress through an adjoining bedroom which exits to the exterior. 


425.8.3.3 Group R-3.1 occupancies housing only one bedridden client. In Group R-3.I occupancies housing a bedridden client and not provided with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system, all of the following shall apply: 
I. 	In Group R-3.I occupancies housing a bedridden client, a direct exit to the exterior ofthe residence shall be provided from the client sleeping room. 
2. 	
Doors to a bedridden client's sleeping room shall be of a self-closing, positive latching I 3/ 8 . inch solid wood door. Such doors shall be provided with a gasket so installed as to provide a seal where the door meets the jam on both sides and across the top. Doors shall be maintained self­closing or shall be automatic closing by actua­tion ofa smoke detector in accordance with Cali­fornia Building Code, Section 7I5.4.8. 

3. 	
Group R-3.I occupancies housing a bedridden client shall not have a night latch, dead bolt, security chain or any similar locking device installed on any interior door leading from a bed­ridden client's sleeping room to any interior area such as a corridor, hallway and or general use areas of the residence in accordance with Chap­ter IO. 

4. 	
The exterior exit door to a bedridden client's sleeping room shall be operable from both the interior and exterior ofthe residence. 

5. 	
Every required exit doorway from a bedridden client sleeping room shall be of a size as to per­mit the installation of a door not less than 3 feet 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
(9I4 mm) in width and not less than 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) in height. When installed in exit doorways, exit doors shall be capable of opening at least 90 degrees and shall be so mounted that the clear width ofthe exit way is not less than 32 inches (813 mm). 
Note: A sliding glass door can be used as an exte­rior exit doorway as long as it is operable from the inside and outside and the clear width of the exit way is not less than 32 inches (813 mm). 
425.8.3.4 Intervening rooms. A means of exit shall not pass through more than one intervening room. A means of egress shall not pass through kitchens, storerooms, closets, garages or spaces used for similar purposes. 
Exception: Kitchens which do not form separate rooms by construction. 

425.8.4 Corridors. 
425.8.4.1 Unless specified by Section 425.8.4, corri­dors serving Group R-2.I and Group R-4 occupancies shall comply with Section IOI8.I. 
425.8.4.2 The minimum clear width of a corridor shall be as follows: 
I. 	Group R-2.I occupancies shall have 60 inches ( I524 mm) on floors housing nonambulatory cli­ents and 44 inches ( III8 mm) on floors housing only ambulatory clients. 
2. 	Group R-4 occupancies shall have 44 inches (11I8 mm) onfloors housing clients. 
Exceptions: 
I. 	Corridors serving an occupant load of IO or less shall not be less than 36 inches (9I4 mm) in width. 
2. 	Corridors serving ambulatory persons only and having an occupant load of 49 or less shall not be less than 36 inches (9I4 mm) in width. 
In Group R-2.I occupancies provided with fire sprinklers throughout and which are required to have rated corridors, door closers need not be installed on doors to client sleeping rooms. 
425.8.4.3In a Group R-2.I and Group R-4 occupancies having smoke barriers, cross-corridor doors in corri­dors 6 feet ( I829 mm) or less in width shall have, as a minimum, a door 36 inches (9I4 mm) in width. 

425.8.5 Changes in level. In Group R-3.I occupancies housing nonambulatory clients, interior changes in level up to 0.25 inch (6 mm) may be vertical and without edge treatment. Changes in level between 0.25 inch (6 mm) and 
0.5 inch (12.7 mm) shall be beveled with a slope no greater than I unit vertical in 2 units horizontal (50-per­cent slope). Changes in level greater than 0.5 inch ( 12.7 mm) shall be accomplished by means ofa ramp. 
425.8.6 Stairways. 
425.8.6.1 Group R-2.I and Group R-4 occupancies housing more than six nonambulatory clients above the 
< 


first floor shall be provided with two vertical exit enclo­sures. Stairway enclosures shall be in compliance with 
> Section 1022. 
425.8.6.2 Group R-3.1 occupancies may continue to use existing stairways (except for winding and spiral stairways which are not permitted as a required means ofegress) provided the stairs have a maximum rise of8 inches (203 mm) with a minimum run of 9 inches (229 mm). The minimum stairway width may be 30 inches (762 mm). 
425.8.7 Floor separation. Group R-3.1 occupancies shall be provided with a non-fire-resistance con­structed floor separation at stairs which will prevent smoke migration between floors. Such floor separation shall have equivalent construction of 0.5 inch ( 12.7 mm) gypsum wallboard on one side ofwall framing. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Occupancies with at least one exterior exit from floors occupied by clients. 

2. 	
Occupancies provided with automatic fire sprinkler systems complying with Chapter 9. 



425.8. 7.1 Doors within floor separations. Doors within such floor separations shall be tight fitting solid wood at least 13inches (35 mm) in thickness. Door glazing 
/8 

shall not exceed 1296 square inches (32 918 mm2) with no dimension greater than 54 inches ( 1372 mm). Such doors shall be positive latching, smoke gasketed and shall be automatic-closing by smoke detection. 
425.8.8 Fences and gates. Grounds ofa Residential Care for the Elderly facility serving Alzheimer clients may be fenced and gates therein equipped with locks, provided safe dispersal areas are located not less than 50 feet ( 15 240 mm) from the buildings. Dispersal areas shall be sized to provide an area of not less than 3 square feet (0.28 m2) per occupant. Gates shall not be installed across corridors or passageways leading to such dispersal areas unless they comply with egress requirements. 
425.8.9 Basement exits. One exit is required to grade level when the basement is accessible to clients. 
425.8.10 Delayed egress locks. See Section 1008.1.9.7. 
425.9 Requestfor alternate means ofprotection for facilities housing bedridden clients. Request for alternate means of protection shall apply to Sections 425 through 425.9. Request for approval to use an alternative material, assembly or materials, equipment, method of construction, method of installation of equipment, or means of protection shall be made in writing to the local fire enforcing agency by the facility, client or the client's authorized representative. Suffi­cient evidence shall be submitted to substantiate the need for an alternate means ofprotection. 
The facility, client or the client's representative or the local fire enforcing agency may request a written opinion from the State Fire Marshal concerning the interpretation of the regulations promulgated by the State Fire Marshal for a particular factual dispute. The State Fire Marshal shall issue the written opinion within 45 days following the request. 
Approval of a request for use of an alternative material, assembly or materials, equipment, method of construction, method of installation of equipment, or means of protection made pursuant to this section shall be limited to Group R-3.1 occupancies housing a bedridden client. 
Approvals made by the local fire enforcing agency and the written opinion by the State Fire Marshal shall be applicable only to the requesting facility and shall not be construed as establishing any precedent for any future request by that facility or any other facility. 
425.10 
Temporarily bedridden clients. Clients who become temporarily bedridden as defined in Health and Safety Code, Section 1569.72, as enforced by the Department of Social Services, may continue to be housed on any story in Group R­2.1, R-3.1, or R-4 occupancies classified as Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE). Every Residential Care Facility for the Elderly (RCFE) admitting or retaining a bed­ridden resident shall, within 48 hours ofthe resident's admis­sion or retention in the facility, notify the local fire authority with jurisdiction of the estimated length of time the resident will retain his or her bedridden status in the facility. 

SECTION426 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENSED 24-HOUR 
CARE FACILITIES IN GROUPS I-1, R-3.1 AND R-4 


426.1 
Operator's statement. Every person, firm or corpora­tion maintaining or operating any Group 1 or R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 occupancy shall provide an operator's statement in accordance with Section 13132 of the Health and Safety Code which reads as follows: 


"13132. Every person, firm or corporation maintaining or operating any facility for the care of the mentally handicapped shall file a statement with the fire author­ity having jurisdiction within five days ofthe admission or readmission of a patient stating that such patient is an ambulatory or a nonambulatory person and enu­merating the reasons for such classification. Such a statement shall also be filed for each existing patient within 30 days of the effective date of this section. Any statement required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be certified as to its correctness by the person attending such patient. It shall be unlawful for any per­son, firm, or corporation required to file a statement pursuant to this section to include false statements therein. Any such act shall be in violation of this sec­tion and subject to the provisions ofSection 13112." 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX A-BOARD OF APPEALS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

... 
. . 

* The Califonua Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisiOns that are found m the Califorma Ftre Code are a reprmt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
Part VII-Appendices 
APPENDIX A 
BOARD OF APPEALS 
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. 
SECTION A 101 
GENERAL 


A101.1 Scope. A board of appeals shall be established within the jurisdiction for the purpose of hearing applications for modification of the requirements of the California Fire Code pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the California Fire Code. The board shall be established and operated in accordance with this section, and shall be authorized to hear evidence from appellants and the fire code official pertaining to the application and intent of this code for the purpose of issuing orders pursuant to these provisions. 
A101.2 Membership. The membership of the board shall consist of five voting members having the qualifications established by this section. Members shall be nominated by the fire code official or the chief administrative officer of the jurisdiction, subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the governing body. Members shall serve without remuneration or compensation, and shall be removed from office prior to the end of their appointed terms only for cause. 
A101.2.1 Design professional. One member shall be a practicing design professional registered in the practice of engineering or architecture in the state in which the board is established. 
A101.2.2 Fire protection engineering professional. One member shall be a qualified engineer, technologist, techni­cian or safety professional trained in fire protection engi­neering, fire science or fire technology. Qualified representatives in this category shall include fire protec­tion contractors and certified technicians engaged in fire protection system design. 
A101.2.3 Industrial safety professional. One member shall be a registered industrial or chemical engineer, certi­fied hygienist, certified safety professional, certified haz­ardous materials manager or comparably qualified specialist experienced in chemical process safety or indus­trial safety. 
A101.2.4 General contractor. One member shall be a contractor regularly engaged in the construction, altera­tion, maintenance, repair or remodeling of buildings or building services and systems regulated by the code. 
A101.2.5 General industry or business representative. One member shall be a representative of business or indus­try not represented by a member from one of the other cat­egories of board members described above. 

A101.3 Terms of office. Members shall be appointed for 
terms of four years. No member shall be reappointed to serve 
more than two consecutive full terms. 
A101.3.1 Initial appointments. Of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, one for a term of three years. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
A101.3.2 Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner in which original appoint­ments are required to be made. Members appointed to fill a vacancy in an unexpired term shall be eligible for reap­pointment to two full terms. 
A101.3.3 Removal from office. Members shall be removed from office prior to the end of their terms only for cause. Continued absence of any member from regular meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the appli­cable governing body, render any such member liable to immediate removal from office. 
A101.4 Quorum. Three members of the board shall consti­tute a quorum. In varying the application of any provisions of this code or in modifying an order of the fire code official, affirmative votes of the majority present, but not less than three, shall be required. 
A101.5 Secretary of board. The fire code official shall act as secretary of the board and shall keep a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its deci­sions, the vote of each member, the absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote. 
A101.6 Legal counsel. The jurisdiction shall furnish legal counsel to the board to provide members with general legal advice concerning matters before them for consideration. Members shall be represented by legal counsel at the jurisdic­tion's expense in all matters arising from service within the scope of their duties. 
A101.7 Meetings. The board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman. In any event, the board shall meet within 10 days after notice of appeal has been received. 
A101.8 Conflict of interest. Members with a material or financial interest in a matter before the board shall declare such interest and refrain from participating in discussions, deliberations and voting on such matters. 
A101.9 Decisions. Every decision shall be promptly filed in writing in the office of the fire code official and shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the appellant, and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the fire code official for two weeks after filing. 
A101.10 Procedures. The board shall be operated in accor­dance with the Administrative Procedures Act of the state in which it is established or shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this code and applicable state law. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE – MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX B – FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  SS  1  2  3  4  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter / Section  
B105.2  X  


*The California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user’s convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX B 
FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS 
SECTION B101 
GENERAL 


B101.1 Scope. The procedure for determining fire-flow requirements for buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed shall be in accordance with this appendix. This appendix does not apply to structures other than buildings. 
SECTION B102 
DEFINITIONS 


B102.1 Definitions. For the purpose of this appendix, certain terms are defined as follows: 
FIRE-FLOW. The flow rate of a water supply, measured at 20 pounds per square inch (psi) (138 kPa) residual pressure, that is available for fire fighting. 
FIRE-FLOW CALCULATION AREA. The floor area, in square feet (m2), used to determine the required fire flow. 
SECTION B103 
MODIFICATIONS 


B103.1 Decreases. The fire chief is authorized to reduce the fire-flow requirements for isolated buildings or a group of buildings in rural areas or small communities where the development of full fire-flow requirements is impractical. 
B103.2 Increases. The fire chief is authorized to increase the fire-flow requirements where conditions indicate an unusual susceptibility to group fires or conflagrations. An increase shall not be more than twice that required for the building under consideration. 
B103.3 Areas without water supply systems. For informa­tion regarding water supplies for fire-fighting purposes in rural and suburban areas in which adequate and reliable water supply systems do not exist, the fire code official is autho­rized to utilize NFPA 1142 or the California Wildland-Urban Interface Code. 
SECTION B104 
FIRE-FLOW CALCULATION AREA 


B104.1 General. The fire-flow calculation area shall be the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls, and under the horizontal projections of the roof of a building, except as modified in Section B104.3. 
B104.2 Area separation. Portions of buildings which are separated by fire walls without openings, constructed in accordance with the California Building Code, are allowed to be considered as separate fire-flow calculation areas. 
B104.3 Type IA and Type IB construction. The fire-flow calculation area of buildings constructed of Type IA and Type IB construction shall be the area of the three largest suc­cessive floors. 
Exception: Fire-flow calculation area for open parking garages shall be determined by the area of the largest floor. 
SECTION B105 FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS 
B105.1 One- and two-family dwellings. The minimum fire-flow and flow duration requirements for one- and two-family 
> 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
dwellings having a fire-flow calculation area that does not exceed 3,600 square feet (344.5 m2) shall be 1,000 gallons per minute (3785.4 L/min) for 1 hour. Fire-flow and flow duration for dwellings having a fire-flow calculation area in excess of 3,600 square feet (344.5m2) shall not be less than that specified in Table B105.1. 
Exception: A reduction in required fire-flow of 50 per­cent, as approved, is allowed when the building is equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
B105.2 Buildings other than one- and two-family dwell­ings. The minimum fire-flow and flow duration for buildings other than one- and two-family dwellings shall be as speci­fied in Table B105.1. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	A reduction in required fire-flow of up to 75 percent, as approved, is allowed when the building is provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2. The resulting fire-flow shall not be less than 1,500 gallons per minute (5678 L/min) for the prescribed duration as specified in Table B105.1. 
2. [SFM] Group B, S-2 and U occupancies having a floor area not exceeding 1,000 square feet, primarily con­structed of noncombustible exterior walls with wood or steel roof framing, having a Class A roof assembly, with uses limited to the following or similar uses: 
2.1. California State Parks buildings of an accessory nature (restrooms). 
2.2. Safety roadside rest areas, (SRRA), public rest­rooms. 
2.3. Truck inspection facilities, (TIF), CHP office space and vehicle inspection bays. 
2.4. Sand/salt storage buildings, storage of sand and salt. 
TABLE B105.1 
MINIMUM REQUIRED FIRE-FLOW AND FLOW DURATION FOR BUILDINGS 

FIRE-FLOW CALCULATION AREA (square feet)  FIRE-FLOW (gallons per minute)b  FLOW DURATION (hours)  
Type IA and IBa  Type IIA and IIIAa  Type IV and V-Aa  Type IIB and IIIBa  Type V-Ba  
0-22,700  0-12,700  0-8,200  0-5,900  0-3,600  1,500  2  
22,701-30,200  12,701-17,000  8,201-10,900  5,901-7,900  3,601-4,800  1,750  
30,201-38,700  17,001-21,800  10,901-12,900  7,901-9,800  4,801-6,200  2,000  
38,701-48,300  21,801-24,200  12,901-17,400  9,801-12,600  6,201-7,700  2,250  
48,301-59,000  24,201-33,200  17,401-21,300  12,601-15,400  7,701-9,400  2,500  
59,001-70,900  33,201-39,700  21,301-25,500  15,401-18,400  9,401-11,300  2,750  
70,901-83,700  39,701-47,100  25,501-30,100  18,401-21,800  11,301-13,400  3,000  3 
83,701-97,700  47,101-54,900  30,101-35,200  21,801-25,900  13,401-15,600  3,250  
97,701-112,700  54,901-63,400  35,201-40,600  25,901-29,300  15,601-18,000  3,500  
112,701-128,700  63,401-72,400  40,601-46,400  29,301-33,500  18,001-20,600  3,750  
128,701-145,900  72,401-82,100  46,401-52,500  33,501-37,900  20,601-23,300  4,000  4  
145,901-164,200  82,101-92,400  52,501-59,100  37,901-42,700  23,301-26,300  4,250  
164,201-183,400  92,401-103,100  59,101-66,000  42,701-47,700  26,301-29,300  4,500  
183,401-203,700  103,101-114,600  66,001-73,300  47,701-53,000  29,301-32,600  4,750  
203,701-225,200  114,601-126,700  73,301-81,100  53,001-58,600  32,601-36,000  5,000  
225,201-247,700  126,701-139,400  81,101-89,200  58,601-65,400  36,001-39,600  5,250  
247,701-271,200  139,401-152,600  89,201-97,700  65,401-70,600  39,601-43,400  5,500  
271,201-295,900  152,601-166,500  97,701-106,500  70,601-77,000  43,401-47,400  5,750  
295,901-Greater  166,501-Greater  106,501-115,800  77,001-83,700  47,401-51,500  6,000  
—  —  115,801-125,500  83,701-90,600  51,501-55,700  6,250  
—  —  125,501-135,500  90,601-97,900  55,701-60,200  6,500  
—  —  135,501-145,800  97,901-106,800  60,201-64,800  6,750  
—  —  145,801-156,700  106,801-113,200  64,801-69,600  7,000  
—  —  156,701-167,900  113,201-121,300  69,601-74,600  7,250  
—  —  167,901-179,400  121,301-129,600  74,601-79,800  7,500  
—  —  179,401-191,400  129,601-138,300  79,801-85,100  7,750  
—  —  191,401-Greater  138,301-Greater  85,101-Greater  8,000  

For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2, 1 gallon per minute = 3.785 L/m, 1 pound per square inch = 6.895 kPa. 
a. 
Types of construction are based on the California Building Code. 

b. 
Measured at 20 psi residual pressure. 


BUFF 
APPENDIX 8 

SECTION 8106 REFERENCED STANDARDS  
>  ICC  IWUIC-12  California Wildland-Urban Interface Code  Bl03.3  
NFPA  1142-12  Standard on Water Supplies for Suburban and Rural Fire Fighting  Bl03.3  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE APPENDIX BB -FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS (Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

... 
. . 

* The Califorma Code ofRegu/atwns (CCR), Title 19, DJvJswn 1 provJSJons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a reprmt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIXBB 
FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS 
SECTION 88101 
SCOPE 


BB101.1 The procedures determining fire-flow requirements for any school buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed for which review and approval is required under Subdivision(a) of Section 17280 of the Government Code shall be in accordance with this appendix as amended by the state fire marshal. This appendix does not apply to structures other than buildings. 
SECTION 88102 
DEFINITIONS 


BB102.1 For the purpose of Appendix III-A, certain terms are defined as follows: 
FIRE AREA. The floor area, in square feet, used to deter­mine the required fire flow. 
FIRE FLOW. The flow rate of a water supply, measured at 20 psi (I 37.9 kPa) residual pressure, that is available for firefighting. 
SECTION 88103 
MOD/FICA TIONS 


BB103.1 An alternative method of providing water for fire protection or any other alternative, in lieu of providing the water, may be enforced when deemed appropriate by the fire chief and the state fire marshal. 
SECTION 88104 
FIRE AREA 


BB1 04.1 General. The fire area shall be the total floor area ofall floor levels within the exterior walls, and under the hor­izontal projections of the roof of a building, except as modi­fied in Section 4. 
BB104.2 Area separation. Portions of buildings which are separated by one or more 4-hour area separation walls con­structed in accordance with the building code, without open­ings and provided with a 30-inch (762 mm) parapet, are allowed to be considered as separate fire areas. 
BB104.3 Type I and Type IB construction. The fire area of buildings constructed of Type I and Type IB construction shall be the area ofthe three largest successive floors. 
SECTION 88105 
FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS 


BB1 05.1 The minimum fire flow and flow duration for school buildings shall be as specified in Table BBI05.1. 
Exception: A reduction in required fire flow of up to 75 percent is allowed when the building is provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE BB105.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED FIRE-FLOW AND FLOW DURA T/ON FOR BUILDINGS 
FIRE AREA (square feet)  FIRE-FLOW (gallons per minute)b  FLOW DURATION (hours) 
Type /A and 18 a  Type IIA and II/A a  Type IV and V-A a  Type liB and 1118 a  Type V-B a  
0-22,700  0-12,700  0-8,200  0-5,900  0-3,600  1,500  2  
22,701-30,200  12,701-17,000  8,201-10,900  5,901-7,900  3, 601-4,800  1,750  
30,201-38,700  17,001-21,800  10,901-12,900  7,901-9,800  4,801-6,200  2,000  
38,701-48,300  21,801-24,200  12,901-17,400  9,801-12,600  6,201-7,700  2,250  
48,301-59,000  24,201-33,200  17,401-21,300  12,601-15,400  7,701-9,400  2,500  
59,001-70,900  33,201-39,700  21,301-25,500  15,401-18,400  9,401-11,300  2,750  
70,901-83,700  39,701-47,100  25,501-30,100  18,401-21,800  11,301-13,400  3,000  3  
83,701-97,700  47,101-54,900  30,101-35,200  21,801-25,900  13,401-15,600  3,250  
97,701-112,700  54,901-63,400  35,201-40,600  25,901-29,300  15,601-18,000  3,500  
112,701-128,700  63,401-72,400  40,601-46,400  29,301-33,500  18,001-20,600  3,750  
128,701-145,900  72,401-82,100  46,401-52,500  33,501-37,900  20,601-23,300  4,000  4  
145,901-164,200  82,101-92,400  52,501-59,100  37,901-42,700  23,301-26,300  4,250  
164,201-183,400  92,401-103,100  59,101-66,000  42,701-47,700  26,301-29,300  4,500  
183,401-203,700  103,101-114,600  66,001-73,300  47,701-53,000  29,301-32,600  4,750  
203,701-225,200  114,601-126,700  73,301-81,100  53,001-58,600  32,601-36,000  5,000  
225,201-247,700  126,701-139,400  81,101-89,200  58,601-65,400  36,001-39,600  5,250  
247,701-271,200  139,401-152,600  89,201-97,700  65,401-70,600  39,601-43,400  5,500  
-­271,201-295,900  152,601-166,500  97,701-106,500  70,601-77,000  43,401-47,400  5,750  
295,901-Greater  166,501-Greater  106,501-115,800  77, 001-83, 700  47,401-51,500  6,000  
- - 115,801-125,500  83,701-90,600  51,501-55,700  6,250  
- - 125,501-135,500  90,601-97,900  55,701-60,200  6,500  
- - 135,501-145,800  97,901-106,800  60,201-64,800  6,750  
- - 145,801-156,700  106,801-113,200  64,801-69,600  7,000  
- - 156,701-167,900  113,201-121,300  69,601-74,600  7,250  
- - 167,901-179,400  121,301-129,600  74,601-79,800  7,500  
- - 179,401-191,400  129,601-138,300  79,801-85,100  7,750  
- - 191,401-Greater  138,301-Greater  85,101-Greater  8,000  

For SI: 1 square foot= 0.0929 m2, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Lim, 1 pound per square inch= 6.895kPa. 
a. 
Types of construction are based on the California Building Code. 

b. 
Measured at 20 psi. 


CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE – MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX C – FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  SS  1  2  3  4  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter / Section  
C101.1  X  


*The California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user’s convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX C 
FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION 
SECTION C101 
GENERAL 


C101.1 Scope. Fire hydrants shall be provided in accordance with this appendix for the protection of buildings, or portions of buildings, hereafter constructed. 
Exception: [SFM] Group B, S-2 and U occupancies hav­ing a floor area not exceeding 1,000 square feet, primarily constructed of noncombustible exterior walls with wood or steel roof framing, having a Class A roof assembly, with uses limited to the following or similar uses: 
1. 
California State Parks buildings of an 	accessory nature (restrooms). 

2. 
Safety	 roadside rest areas, (SRRA), public rest­rooms. 

3. 
Truck inspection facilities, (TIF), California High­way Patrol (CHP) office space and vehicle inspec­tion bays. 

4. 
Sand/salt storage buildings, storage of	 sand and salt. 


SECTION C102 
LOCATION 


C102.1 Fire hydrant locations. Fire hydrants shall be pro­vided along required fire apparatus access roads and adjacent public streets. 
SECTION C103 
NUMBER OF FIRE HYDRANTS 


C103.1 Fire hydrants available. The minimum number of fire hydrants available to a building shall not be less than that listed in Table C105.1. The number of fire hydrants available to a complex or subdivision shall not be less than that deter­mined by spacing requirements listed in Table C105.1 when applied to fire apparatus access roads and perimeter public streets from which fire operations could be conducted. 
SECTION C104 
CONSIDERATION OF EXISTING FIRE HYDRANTS 

C104.1 Existing fire hydrants. Existing fire hydrants on public streets are allowed to be considered as available. Exist­ing fire hydrants on adjacent properties shall not be consid­ered available unless fire apparatus access roads extend between properties and easements are established to prevent obstruction of such roads. 
SECTION C105 
DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS 


C105.1 Hydrant spacing. The average spacing between fire hydrants shall not exceed that listed in Table C105.1. 
Exception: The fire chief is authorized to accept a defi­ciency of up to 10 percent where existing fire hydrants provide all or a portion of the required fire hydrant service. 
Regardless of the average spacing, fire hydrants shall be located such that all points on streets and access roads adja­cent to a building are within the distances listed in Table C105.1. 
> 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
TABLE C105.1 NUMBER AND DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS 
FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENT (gpm)  MINIMUM NUMBER OF HYDRANTS  AVERAGE SPACING BETWEEN HYDRANTSa, b, c (feet)  MAXIMUM DISTANCE FROM ANY POINT ON STREET OR ROAD FRONTAGE TO A HYDRANTd  
1,750 or less  1  500  250  
2,000-2,250  2  450  225  
2,500  3  450  225  
3,000  3  400  225  
3,500-4,000  4  350  210  
4,500-5,000  5  300  180  
5,500  6  300  180  
6,000  6  250  150  
6,500-7,000  7  250  150  
7,500 or more  8 or moree  200  120  

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 gallon per minute = 3.785 L/m. 
a. 
Reduce by 100 feet for dead-end streets or roads. 

b. 
Where streets are provided with median dividers which cannot be crossed by fire fighters pulling hose lines, or where arterial streets are provided with four or more traffic lanes and have a traffic count of more than 30,000 vehicles per day, hydrant spacing shall average 500 feet on each side of the street and be arranged on an alternating basis up to a fire-flow requirement of 7,000 gallons per minute and 400 feet for higher fire-flow requirements. 

c. 
Where new water mains are extended along streets where hydrants are not needed for protection of structures or similar fire problems, fire hydrants shall be provided at spacing not to exceed 1,000 feet to provide for transportation hazards. 

d. 
Reduce by 50 feet for dead-end streets or roads. 

e. 
One hydrant for each 1,000 gallons per minute or fraction thereof. 


BUFF 

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX CC-FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 X  T-19* SFM  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

..
...

* The Californza Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVISIOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIXCC 
FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION 

SECTION CC101 
SCOPE 


CCJOJ.l Fire hydrants shall be provided in accordance with this appendix for the protection of any school buildings, or portions thereof hereafter constructed for which review and approval are required under Subdivision( a) ofSection 17280 ofthe Government Code. 
SECTION CC102 
LOCATION 


CC102.1 Fire hydrants shall be provided along required fire apparatus access roads and adjacent public streets. 
SECTION CC1 03 
NUMBER OF FIRE HYDRANTS 


CC103.1 The minimum number offire hydrants available to a building shall not be less than that listed in Table CC105.1. The number offire hydrants available to a complex or subdi­vision shall not be less than that determined by spacing requirements listed in Table CC105.1 when applied to fire apparatus access roads and perimeter streets from which fire operations could be conducted. 
SECTION CC104 
CONSIDERATION OF EXISTING FIRE HYDRANTS 

CC104.1 Existing fire hydrants on public streets are allowed to be considered as available. Existing fire hydrants on adja­cent properties shall not be considered available unless fire apparatus access roads extend between properties and ease­ments are established to prevent obstruction ofsuch roads. 
SECTION CC105 
DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS 


CCJOS.l The average spacing between fire hydrants shall not exceed that listed in Table CC105.1. 
Exception: A deficiency of up to 10 percent shall not be allowed when existing fire hydrants provide all, or a por­tion, ofthe required fire hydrant service. 
Regardless of the average spacing, fire hydrants shall be located such that all points on streets and access roads adja­cent to a building are within the distances listed in Table CC105.1. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE CC105.1 NUMBER AND DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS 
FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENT (gpm)  MINIMUM NUMBER OF HYDRANTS  AVERAGE SPACING BETWEEN HYDRANTS'· b, c (feet)  MAXIMUM DISTANCE FROM ANY POINT ON STREET OR ROAD FRONTAGE TO A HYDRANT"  
1, 750 or less  1  500  250  
2,000-2,250  2  450  225  
2,500  3  450  225  
~­3,000  3  400  225  
3,500-4,000  4  -350  210  
4,500-5,000  5  300  180  
5,500  6  300  180  
6,000  6  250  150  
6,500-7,000  7  250  150  
7,500 or more  8 or moree  200  120  

For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm, 1 gallon per minute= 3.785 Vm. 
a. 
Reduce by 100 feet for dead-end streets or roads. 

b. 	
Where streets are provided with median dividers which can be crossed by fire fighters pulling hose lines, or where arterial streets are provided with four or more traffic lanes and have a traffic count of more than 30,000 vehicles per day, hydrant spacing shall average 500 feet on each side of the street and be arranged on an alternating basis up to afire-flow requirement of7,000 gallons per minute and 400 feet for higher fire-flow requirements. 


c 	Where new water mains are extended along streets where hydrants are not needed for protection ofstructures or similar fire problems, fire hydrants shall be provided at spacing not to exceed 1,000 feet to provide for transportation hazards. 
d. 
Reduce by 50 feet for dead-end streets or roads. 

e. 	
One hydrant for each 1,000 gallons per minute orfraction thereof 


CC105.2 When public or private water mains are not avail­other means in accordance with NPFA 13. Water tanks 
able to supply fire flow [not within 1,000 feet (304 800 mm) shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 22. (See 
of the proposed building], the following alternatives shall be the California Building Code, Chapter 9.) 
used: 

2. When the adequate fire flow is not available and the 
1. Building(s) shall be protected by an automatic sprin­water for sprinklers is provided from a source other 
kler system 	than a public water supply, the amount ofwater to sup­ply the system shall be calculated using the area/den­
Exception: Portable (relocatable) buildings, as defined sity method or the room design method as delineated in in California Education Code Section 17742.5(e), 
NFPA 13. The calculated duration of water flow towhich requires that portable buildings be designed and sprinklers shall not be less than 15 minutes to 10 heads. 
constructed to be relocatable over public streets, shall be designed and constructed for relocation without the 3. The sprinkler system shall have a water flow alarm separation of the roof or floor from the building and monitored by an approved central, proprietary or when measured at the most exterior walls, shall have a remote station service or a local alarm which will give floor area not in excess of 2,000 square feet (186m2). audible and visual signals at a constant attended loca­Such portable buildings shall be separated from other tion. structures in groupings not to exceed 9, 100 square feet 
4. When this alternative is utilized and the calculated (845m2) in building area (pursuant to Table 503, Cali­water duration to a sprinkler is less than NFPA 13 rec­fornia Building Code,for Type V-B buildings). Further ommendations, the area increases and fire resistive area increases shall be as approved by the local fire substitutions allowed in Chapter 5 of the California authority having jurisdiction and the state fire marshal. 
Building Code shall not be permitted. 
The water for sprinklers may be supplied by the 
domestic system, a pressure tank, a gravity tank or 

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX D-FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD 1 2 3 4  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC 
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  ss  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter I Section  


..
. . . 

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Califomza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX D 
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS 
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. 
SECTION 0101 
GENERAL 


0101.1 Scope. Fire apparatus access roads shall be in accor­dance with this appendix and all other applicable require­ments of the California Fire Code. 

SECTION 0102 
REQUIRED ACCESS 


0102.1 Access and loading. Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed shall be accessible to fire department apparatus by way of an approved fire apparatus access road with an asphalt, concrete or other approved driv­ing surface capable of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus weighing at least 75,000 pounds (34 050 kg). 
SECTION 01 03 
MINIMUM SPECIFICATIONS 


0103.1 Access road width with a hydrant. Where a fire hydrant is located on a fire apparatus access road, the mini­mum road width shall be 26 feet (7925 mm), exclusive of shoulders (see Figure D103.1). 
0103.2 Grade. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed 10 percent in grade. 
Exception: Grades steeper than 10 percent as approved by the fire chief. 

0103.3 Turning radius. The minimum turning radius shall be determined by the fire code official. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
0103.4 Dead ends. Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet (45 720 mm) shall be provided with width and turnaround provisions in accordance with Table D103.4. 
TABLE D103.4 
REQUIREMENTS FOR DEAD-END 
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS 


LENGTH (feet)  WIDTH (feet)  TURNAROUNDS REQUIRED  
0-150  20  None required  
151-500  20  120-foot Hammerhead, 60-foot "Y" or 96-foot diameter cul-de-sac in accor­dance with Figure D103.1  
501-750  26  120-foot Hammerhead, 60-foot "Y" or 96-foot diameter cul-de-sac in accor­dance with Figure D103.1  
Over750  Special approval required  

For SI: 1 foot= 304.8 mm. 
0103.5 Fire apparatus access road gates. Gates securing the fire apparatus access roads shall comply with all of the following criteria: 
1. 	
The minimum gate width shall be 20 feet (6096 mm). 

2. 	
Gates shall be of the swinging or sliding type. 

3. 	
Construction of gates shall be of materials that allow manual operation by one person. 

4. 	
Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times and replaced or repaired when defective. 

5. 
Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of open­ing the gate by fire department personnel for emer­gency access. Emergency opening devices shall be approved by the fire code official. 


543 



20' 
26'R 

26' 

TYP.
28'R 
20'~
TYP. 
20' 
20'
26' 

96-FOOT DIAMETER 	MINIMUM CLEARANCE
60-FOOT"Y" 

CUL-DE-SAC AROUND A FIRE HYDRANT 
60' 60' 	28'R TYP. 

20' 
. 	20' 


120-FOOT HAMMERHEAD ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATIVE TO 120-FOOT HAMMERHEAD 
For SI: I foot= 304.8 mm. 
FIGURE D103.1 DEAD-END FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD TURNAROUND 
6. 	
Manual opening gates shall not be locked with a pad­lock or chain and padlock unless they are capable of being opened by means of forcible entry tools or when a key box containing the key(s) to the lock is installed at the gate location. 

7. 	
Locking device specifications shall be submitted for approval by the fire code official. 

8. 	
Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. 

9. 	
Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTM F 2200. 


D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING-FIRE LANE signs complying with Figure D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12 inches (305 mm) wide by 18 inches ( 457 mm) high and have red let­ters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section D103.6.1 or D103.6.2. 
SIGN TYPE "A" SIGN TYPE "C" SIGN TYPE "D" 
NO PARKING FIRE LANE ........  NO PARKING FIRE LANE....  NO PARKING FIRE LANE  T  

I 
I 
18" 

12" 12" 12"-1 
FIGURE D103.6 FIRE LANE SIGNS 

D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6 shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access roads that are 20 to 26 feet wide (6096 to 7925 mm). 
D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6 shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads more than 26 feet wide (7925 mm) and less than 32 feet wide (9754 mm). 
SECTION D1 04 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS 
Dl04.1 Buildings exceeding three stories or 30 feet in height. Buildings or facilities exceeding 30 feet (9144 mm) or three stories in height shall have at least two means of fire apparatus access for each structure. 
D104.2 Buildings exceeding 62,000 square feet in area. 
Buildings or facilities having a gross building area of more than 62,000 square feet (5760 m2) shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads. 
Exception: Projects having a gross building area of up to 124,000 square feet (11 520 m2) that have a single approved fire apparatus access road when all buildings are equipped throughout with approved automatic sprinkler systems. 
D104.3 Remoteness. Where two fire apparatus access roads are required, they shall be placed a distance apart equal to not less than one half of the length of the maximum overall diag­onal dimension of the lot or area to be served, measured in a straight line between accesses. 
SECTION D1 05 
AERIAL FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS 


D105.1 Where required. Where the vertical distance between the grade plane and the highest roof surface exceeds 30 feet (9144 mm), approved aerial fire apparatus access roads shall be provided. For purposes of this section, the highest roof surface shall be detennined by measurement to the eave of a pitched roof, the intersection of the roof to the exterior wall, or the top of parapet walls, whichever is greater. 
D105.2 Width. Aerial fire apparatus access roads shall have a minimum unobstructed width of 26 feet (7925 mm), exclu­sive of shoulders, in the immediate vicinity of the building or portion thereof. 
D105.3 Proximity to building. At least one of the required access routes meeting this condition shall be located within a minimum of 15 feet (4572 mm) and a maximum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from the building, and shall be positioned parallel to one entire side of the building. The side of the building on which the aerial fire apparatus access road is positioned shall be approved by the fire code official. 
D105.4 Obstructions. Overhead utility and power lines shall not be located over the aerial fire apparatus access road or between the aerial fire apparatus road and the building. Other obstructions shall be permitted to be placed with the approval of the fire code official. 
SECTION D1 06 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS 
D106.1 Projects having more than 100 dwelling units. 
Multiple-family residential projects having more than 100 dwelling units shall be equipped throughout with two sepa­rate and approved fire apparatus access roads. 
Exception: Projects having up to 200 dwelling units may have a single approved fire apparatus access road when all buildings, including nonresidential occupancies, are equipped throughout with approved automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 
903.3.1.2. 
APPENDIX D 

Dl06.2 Projects having more than 200 dwelling units. 
Multiple-family residential projects having more than 200 dwelling units shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads regardless of whether they are equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler sys­tem. 
SECTION D1 07 
ONE-OR TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL 
DEVELOPMENTS 


D107.1 One-or two-family dwelling residential develop­ments. Developments of one-or two-family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads, and shall meet the requirements of Section D104.3. 
Exceptions: 
1. 	
Where there are more than 30 dwelling units on a single public or private fire apparatus access road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accor­dance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3 of the California Fire Code, access from two direc­tions shall not be required. 

2. 	
The number of dwelling units on a single fire appa­ratus access road shall not be increased unless fire apparatus access roads will connect with future development, as determined by the fire code official. 



D108  
REFERENCED STANDARDS  
ASTM  F 2200-05 Standard Specification for Automated Vehicular Gate  
Construction  D103.5  
UL  325-02  Door, Drapery, Gate, Louver, and Window Operators and Systems, with Revisions through February 2006  D103.5  <  

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX E-HAZARD CATEGORIES 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX E 
HAZARD CATEGORIES 
This appendix is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption. 
SECTION E1 01 
GENERAL 


ElOl.l Scope. This appendix provides information, explana­tions and examples to illustrate and clarify the hazard catego­ries contained in Chapter 50 of the California Fire Code. The hazard categories are based upon the DOL 29 CFR. Where numerical classifications are included, they are in accordance with nationally recognized standards. 
This appendix should not be used as the sole means of hazardous materials classification. 
SECTION E1 02 
HAZARD CATEGORIES 


E102.1 Physical hazards. Materials classified in this section pose a physical hazard. 
E102.1.1 Explosives and blasting agents. The current UN/DOT classification system recognized by international authorities, the Department of Defense and others classi­fies all explosives as Class 1 materials. They are then divided into six separate divisions to indicate their relative hazard. There is not a direct correlation between the desig­nations used by the old DOT system and those used by the current system nor is there correlation with the system (high and low) established by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATF). Table 5604.3 of the California Fire Code provides some guidance with regard to the current categories and their relationship to the old categories. Some items may appear in more than one division, depending on factors such as the degree of confinement or separation, by type of packaging, storage configuration or state of assembly. 

In order to determine the level of hazard presented by explosive materials, testing to establish quantitatively their explosive nature is required. There are numerous test methods that have been used to establish the character of an explosive material. Standardized tests, required for fin­ished goods containing explosives or explosive materials in a packaged form suitable for shipment or storage, have been established by UN/DOT and BATF. However, these tests do not consider key elements that should be exam­ined in a manufacturing situation. In manufacturing opera­tions, the condition and/or the state of a material may vary within the process. The in-process material classification and classification requirements for materials used in the manufacturing process may be different from the classifi­cation of the same material when found in finished goods depending on the stage of the process in which the mate­rial is found. A classification methodology must be used that recognizes the hazards commensurate with the appli­cation to the variable physical conditions as well as poten­tial variations of physical character and type of explosive under consideration. 
Test methods or guidelines for hazard classification of energetic materials used for in-process operations shall be approved by the fire code official. Test methods used shall be DOD, BATF, UN/DOT or other approved criteria. The results of such testing shall become a portion of the files of the jurisdiction and be included as an independent section of any Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) required by Section 5605.2.1 of the California Fire Code. Also see Section 104.7.2 of the California Fire Code. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Examples of materials in various Divisions are as fol­lows: 
1. 	
Division 1.1 (High Explosives). Consists of explo­sives that have a mass explosion hazard. A mass explosion is one which affects almost the entire pile of material instantaneously. Includes substances that, when tested in accordance with approved meth­ods, can be caused to detonate by means of a blast­ing cap when unconfined or will transition from deflagration to a detonation when confined or unconfined. Examples: dynamite, TNT, nitroglycer­ine, C-3, HMX, RDX, encased explosives, military ammunition. 

2. 	
Division 1.2 (Low Explosives). Consists of explo­sives that have a projection hazard, but not a mass explosion hazard. Examples: nondetonating encased explosives, military ammunition and the like. 

3. 	
Division 1.3 (Low Explosives). Consists of explo­sives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard. The major hazard is radi­ant heat or violent burning, or both. Can be defla­grated when confined. Examples: smokeless powder, propellant explosives, display fireworks. 

4. 
Division 	1.4. Consists of explosives that pose a minor explosion hazard. The explosive effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of appreciable size or range is expected. An internal fire must not cause virtually instanta­neous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package. Examples: squibs (nondetonating igniters), explosive actuators, explosive trains (low-level det­onating cord). 

5. 	
Division 1.5 (Blasting Agents). Consists of very insensitive explosives. This division is comprised of substances which have a mass explosion hazard, but are so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detona­tion under normal conditions of transport. Materials are not cap sensitive; however, they are mass deto­nating when provided with sufficient input. Exam­ples: oxidizer and liquid fuel slurry mixtures and gels, ammonium nitrate combined with fuel oil. 

6. 	
Division 1.6. Consists of extremely insensitive arti­cles which do not have a mass explosive hazard. This division is comprised of articles which contain only extremely insensitive detonating substances and which demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation. Although this category of materials has been defined, the primary application is currently limited to military uses. Examples: Low vulnerability military weapons. 


Explosives in each division are assigned a compatibil­ity group letter by the Associate Administrator for Hazard­ous Materials Safety (DOT) based on criteria specified by DOTn 49 CFR. Compatibility group letters are used to specify the controls for the transportation and storage related to various materials to prevent an increase in haz­ard that might result if certain types of explosives were stored or transported together. Altogether, there are 35 possible classification codes for explosives, e.g., l.lA, 1.3C, 1.4S, etc. 
E102.1.2 Compressed gases. Examples include: 
1. 	Flammable: acetylene, carbon monoxide, ethane, ethylene, hydrogen, methane. Ammonia will ignite and burn although its flammable range is too narrow for it to fit the definition of "Flammable gas." 
For binary mixtures where the hazardous compo­nent is diluted with a nonflammable gas, the mix­ture shall be categorized in accordance with CGA P-23. 
2. 
Oxidizing: oxygen, ozone, oxides of nitrogen, chlo­rine and fluorine. Chlorine and fluorine do not con­tain oxygen but reaction with flammables is similar to that of oxygen. 

3. 	
Corrosive: ammonia, hydrogen chloride, fluorine. 

4. 
Highly toxic: arsine, cyanogen, fluorine, germane, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, phosphine, hydrogen selenide, stibine. 

5. 	
Toxic: chlorine, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen sul­fide, phosgene, silicon tetrafluoride. 

6. 	
Inert (chemically unreactive): argon, helium, kryp­ton, neon, nitrogen, xenon. 

7. 
Pyrophoric: 	diborane, dichloroborane, phosphine, silane. 

8. 	
Unstable (reactive): butadiene (unstabilized), ethyl­ene oxide, vinyl chloride. 


E102.1.3 Flammable and combustible liquids. Exam­ples include: 
1. 	Flammable liquids. 
Class lA liquids shall include those having flash points below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or below 100°F (38°C). 
Class IB liquids shall include those having flash points below 73°F (23°C) and having a boiling point at or above 100°F (38°C). 
Class IC liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 73°F (23°C) and below 100°F (38°C). 
2. Combustible liquids. 
Class II liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F (60°C). 
Class IliA liquids shall include those having flash points at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C). 
Class IIIB liquids shall include those liquids having flash points at or above 200°F (93°C). 
E102.1.4 Flammable solids. Examples include: 
1. 	Organic solids: camphor, cellulose nitrate, naphtha­lene. 
2. 	
Inorganic solids: decaborane, lithium amide, phos­phorous heptasulfide, phosphorous sesquisulfide, potassium sulfide, anhydrous sodium sulfide, sulfur. 

3. 	
Combustible metals (except dusts and powders): cesium, magnesium, zirconium. 


E102.1.5 Combustible dusts and powders. Finely divided solids which may be dispersed in air as a dust cloud: wood sawdust, plastics, coal, flour, powdered met­als (few exceptions). 
E102.1.6 Combustible fibers. See Section 5202.1. 
E102.1.7 Oxidizers. Examples include: 
1. 	
Gases: oxygen, ozone, oxides of nitrogen, fluorine and chlorine (reaction with flammables is similar to that of oxygen). 

2. 	
Liquids: bromine, hydrogen peroxide, nitric acid, perchloric acid, sulfuric acid. 

3. 	
Solids: chlorates, chromates, chromic acid, iodine, nitrates, nitrites, perchlorates, peroxides. 


E102.1.7.1 Examples of liquid and solid oxidizers according to hazard. 
Class 4: ammonium perchlorate (particle size greater than 15 microns), ammonium permanganate, guanidine nitrate, hydrogen peroxide solutions more than 91 percent by weight, perchloric acid solutions more than 72.5 percent by weight, potassium super­oxide, tetranitromethane. 
Class 3: ammonium dichromate, calcium hypochlo­rite (over 50 percent by weight), chloric acid (10 percent maximum concentration), hydrogen perox­ide solutions (greater than 52 percent up to 91 per­cent), mono-(trichloro )-tetra-(monopotassium di­chloro)-penta-s-triazinetrione, nitric acid, (fuming ­more than 86 percent concentration), perchloric acid solutions (60 percent to 72 percent by weight), potassium bromate, potassium chlorate, potassium dichloro-s-triazinetrione (potassium dichloro-isocy­anurate), sodium bromate, sodium chlorate, sodium chlorite (over 40 percent by weight) and sodium dichloro-s-triazinetrione (sodium dichloro-isocyan­urate). 
Class 2: barium bromate, barium chlorate, barium hypochlorite, barium perchlorate, barium permanga­nate, 1-bromo-3-chloro-5, 5-dimethylhydantoin, cal­cium chlorate, calcium chlorite, calcium hypochlorite (50 percent or less by weight), calcium perchlorate, calcium permanganate, chromium triox­ide (chromic acid), copper chlorate, halane (1, 3-di­chloro-5, 5-dimethylhydantoin), hydrogen peroxide (greater than 27.5 percent up to 52 percent), lead perchlorate, lithium chlorate, lithium hypochlorite (more than 39 percent available chlorine), lithium perchlorate, magnesium bromate, magnesium chlo­rate, magnesium perchlorate, mercurous chlorate, nitric acid (more than 40 percent but less than 86 percent), perchloric acid solutions (more than 50 percent but less than 60 percent), potassium perchlo­

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE APPENDIX E 
rate, potassium permanganate, potassium peroxide, potassium superoxide, silver peroxide, sodium chlo­rite (40 percent or less by weight), sodium perchlo­rate, sodium perchlorate monohydrate, sodium permanganate, sodium peroxide, strontium chlorate, strontium perchlorate, thallium chlorate, trichloro-s­triazinetrione (trichloroisocyanuric acid), urea hydrogen peroxide, zinc bromate, zinc chlorate and zinc permanganate. 
Class 1: all inorganic nitrates (unless otherwise clas­sified), all inorganic nitrites (unless otherwise classi­fied), ammonium persulfate, barium peroxide, calcium peroxide, hydrogen peroxide solutions (greater than 8 percent up to 27.5 percent), lead dioxide, lithium hypochlorite (39 percent or less available chlorine), lithium peroxide, magnesium peroxide, manganese dioxide, nitric acid ( 40 percent concentration or less), perchloric acid solutions (less than 50 percent by weight), potassium dichromate, potassium percarbonate, potassium persulfate, sodium carbonate peroxide, sodium dichloro-s-tri­azinetrione dihydrate, sodium dichromate, sodium perborate (anhydrous), sodium perborate monohy­drate, sodium perborate tetra-hydrate, sodium per­carbonate, sodium persulfate, strontium peroxide and zinc peroxide. 
E102.1.8 Organic peroxides. Organic peroxides contain the double oxygen or peroxy (-o-o) group. Some are flam­mable compounds and subject to explosive decomposi­tion. They are available as: 
1. 	
Liquids. 

2. 	
Pastes. 

3. 	
Solids (usually finely divided powers). 


E102.1.8.1 Classification of organic peroxides according to hazard. 
Unclassified: Unclassified organic peroxides are capable of detonation and are regulated in accor­dance with Chapter 56 of the California Fire Code. 
Class 1: acetyl cyclohexane sulfonyl 60-65 percent concentration by weight, fulfonyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide over 98 percent concentration, t-butyl hydroperoxide 90 percent, t-butyl peroxyacetate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxyisopropylcarbonate 92 per­cent, diisopropyl peroxydicarbonate 100 percent, di­n-propyl peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, and di-n­propyl peroxydicarbonate 85 percent. 
Class II: acetyl peroxide 25 percent, t-butyl hydro­peroxide 70 percent (with DTBP and t-BuOH dilu­ents), t-butyl peroxybenzoate 98 percent, t-butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 97 percent, t-butyl peroxy­isobutyrate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxyisopropyl-car­bonate 75 percent, t-butyl peroxypivalate 75 percent, dybenzoyl peroxydicarbonate 85 percent, di-sec-butyl peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, di-sec­butyl peroxydicarbonate 75 percent, 1,1-di-(t-butyl­peroxy)-3,5,5-trimethyecyclohexane 95 percent, di­(2-ethythexyl) peroxydicarbonate 97 percent, 2,5­
549 

dymethyl-2-5 di (benzoylperoxy) hexane 92 percent, and peroxyacetic acid 43 percent. 
Class III: acetyl cyclohexane sulfonal peroxide 29 percent, benzoyl peroxide 78 percent, benzoyl per­oxide paste 55 percent, benzoyl peroxide paste 50 percent peroxide/50 percent butylbenzylphthalate diluent, cumene hydroperoxide 86 percent, di-(4­butylcyclohexyl) peroxydicarbonate 98 percent, t­butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 97 percent, t-butyl peroxyneodecanoate 75 percent, decanoyl peroxide 
98.5 percent, di-t-butyl peroxide 99 percent, l,l-di­(t-butylperoxy)3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexane 75 per­cent, 2,4-dichlorobenzoyl peroxide 50 percent, di­isopropyl peroxydicarbonate 30 percent, 2,-5-di­methyl-2,5-di-(2-ethylhexanolyperoxy)-hexane 90 percent, 2,5-dimethyl-2,5-di-(t-butylperoxy) hexane 90 percent and methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 9 per­cent active oxygen diluted in dimethyl phthalate. 
Class IV: benzoyl peroxide 70 percent, benzoyl per­oxide paste 50 percent peroxide/IS percent water/35 percent butylphthalate diluent, benzoyl peroxide slurry 40 percent, benzoyl peroxide powder 35 per­cent, t-butyl hydroperoxide 70 percent, (with water diluent), t-butyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate 50 per­cent, decumyl peroxide 98 percent, di-(2-ethylhexal) peroxydicarbonate 40 percent, laurel peroxide 98 percent, p-methane hydroperoxide 52.5 percent, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 5.5 percent active oxy­gen and methyl ethyl ketone peroxide 9 percent active oxygen diluted in water and glycols. 
Class V: benzoyl peroxide 35 percent, 1,1-di-t­butyl peroxy 3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexane 40 per­cent, 2,5-di-(t-butyl peroxy) hexane 47 percent and 2,4-pentanedione peroxide 4 percent active oxygen. 
E102.1.9 Pyrophoric materials. Examples include: 
1. 	
Gases: diborane, phosphine, silane. 

2. 	
Liquids: diethylaluminum chloride, di-ethylberylli­um, diethylphosphine, diethylzinc, dimethylarsine, triethylaluminum etherate, tri-ethylbismuthine, tri­ethylboron, trimethylalurninum, trimethylgallium. 

3. 
Solids: cesium, hafnium, lithium, white or yellow phosphorous, plutonium, potassium, rubidium, sodium, thorium. 


E102.1.10 Unstable (reactive) materials. Examples include: 
Class 4: acetyl peroxide, dibutyl peroxide, dinitroben­zene, ethyl nitrate, peroxyacetic acid and picric acid (dry) trinitrobenzene. 
Class 3: hydrogen peroxide (greater than 52 percent), hydroxylamine, nitromethane, paranitroaniline, per­chloric acid and tetrafluoroethylene monomer. 
Class 2: acrolein, acrylic acid, hydrazine, methacrylic acid, sodium perchlorate, styrene and vinyl acetate. 
Class 1: acetic acid, hydrogen peroxide 35 percent to 52 percent, paraldehyde and tetrahydrofuran. 
E102.1.11 Water-reactive materials. Examples include: 
Class 3: aluminum alkyls such as triethylaluminum, isobutylaluminum and trimethylaluminum; bromine pentafluoride, bromine trifluoride, chlorodiethylalu­minium and diethylzinc. 
Class 2: calcium carbide, calcium metal, cyanogen bro­mide, lithium hydride, methyldichlorosilane, potassium metal, potassium peroxide, sodium metal, sodium per­oxide, sulfuric acid and trichlorosilane. 
Class 1: acetic anhydride, sodium hydroxide, sulfur 
monochloride and titanium tetrachloride. El02.1.12 Cryogenic fluids. The cryogenics listed will exist as compressed gases when they are stored at ambient temperatures. 
1. 	
Flammable: carbon monoxide, deuterium (heavy hydrogen), ethylene, hydrogen, methane. 

2. 	
Oxidizing: fluorine, nitric oxide, oxygen. 

3. 	
Corrosive: fluorine, nitric oxide. 

4. 
Inert (chemically unreactive): argon, helium, kryp­ton, neon, nitrogen, xenon. 

5. 	
Highly toxic: fluorine, nitric oxide. 


El02.2 Health hazards. Materials classified in this section pose a health hazard. 
El02.2.1 Highly toxic materials. Examples include: 
1. 	
Gases: arsine, cyanogen, diborane, flumine, ger­mane, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, nitrogen diox­ide, ozone, phosphine, hydrogen selenide, stibine. 

2. 	
Liquids: acrolein, acrylic acid, 2-chloroethanol (eth­ylene chlorohydrin), hydrazine, hydrocyanic acid, 2­methylaziridine (propylenimine ), 2-methyl-acetoni­trile (acetone cyanohydrin), methyl ester isocyanic acid (methyl isocyanate), nicotine, tetranitromethane and tetraethylstannane (tetraethyltin). 

3. 	
Solids: (aceto) phenylmercury (phenyl mercuric ace­tate), 4-aminopyridine, arsenic pentoxide, arsenic trioxide, calcium cyanide, 2-chloroacetophenone, aflatoxin B, decaborane(14), mercury (II) bromide (mercuric bromide), mercury (II) chloride (corrosive mercury chloride), pentachlorophenol, methyl para­thion, phosphorus (white) and sodium azide. 


E102.2.2 Toxic materials. Examples include: 
1. 	
Gases: boron trichloride, boron trifluoride, chlorine, chlorine trifluoride, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen sulfide, phosgene, silicon tetrafluoride. 

2. 	
Liquids: acrylonitrile, allyl alcohol, alpha-chlorotol­uene, aniline, 1-chloro-2,3-epoxypropane, chloro­formic acid (allyl ester), 3-chloropropene (allyl chloride), o-cresol, crotonaldehyde, dibromometh­ane, diisopropylamine, diethyl ester sulfuric acid, dimethyl ester sulfuric acid, 2-furaldehyde (furfu­ral), furfural alcohol, phosphorus chloride, phospho­ryl chloride (phosphorus oxychloride) and thionyl chloride. 

3. 	
Solids: acrylarnide, barium chloride, barium (II) nitrate, benzidine, p-benzoquinone, beryllium chlo­


ride, cadmium chloride, cadmium oxide, chloroace­tic acid, chlorophenylmercury (phenyl mercuric chloride), chromium (VI) oxide (chromic acid, solid), 2,4-dinitrotoluene, hydroquinone, mercury chloride (calomel), mercury (II) sulfate (mercuric sulfate), osmium tetroxide, oxalic acid, phenol, P­phenylenediamine, phenylhydrazine, 4-phenylmor­pholine, phosphorus sulfide, potassium fluoride, potassium hydroxide, selenium (IV) disulfide and sodium fluoride. 
E102.2.3 Corrosives. Examples include: 
1. 	
Acids: Examples: chromic, formic, hydrochloric (muriatic) greater than 15 percent, hydrofluoric, nitric (greater than 6 percent, perchloric, sulfuric ( 4 percent or more). 

2. 	
Bases (alkalis): hydroxides-ammonium (greater than 10 percent), calcium, potassium (greater than 1 per­cent), sodium (greater than 1 percent); certain car­bonates-potassium. 

3. 	
Other corrosives: bromine, chlorine, fluorine, iodine, ammonia. 


Note: Corrosives that are oxidizers, e.g., nitric acid, chlorine, fluorine; or are compressed gases, e.g., ammonia, chlorine, fluorine; or are water-reactive, e.g., concentrated sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide, are phys­ical hazards in addition to being health hazards. 
SECTION E1 03 
EVALUATION OF HAZARDS 


E103.1 Degree of hazard. The degree of hazard present depends on many variables which should be considered indi­vidually and in combination. Some of these variables are as shown in Sections E103.1.1 through E103.1.5. 
E103.1.1 Chemical properties of the material. Chemical properties of the material determine self reactions and reactions which may occur with other materials. Gener­ally, materials within subdivisions of hazard categories will exhibit similar chemical properties. However, materi­als with similar chemical properties may pose very differ­ent hazards. Each individual material should be researched to determine its hazardous properties and then considered in relation to other materials that it might contact and the surrounding environment. 
E103.1.2 Physical properties of the material. Physical properties, such as whether a material is a solid, liquid or gas at ordinary temperatures and pressures, considered along with chemical properties will determine require­ments for containment of the material. Specific gravity (weight of a liquid compared to water) and vapor density (weight of a gas compared to air) are both physical proper­ties which are important in evaluating the hazards of a material. 
E103.1.3 Amount and concentration of the material. 
The amount of material present and its concentration must be considered along with physical and chemical properties to determine the magnitude of the hazard. Hydrogen per-
APPENDIX E 
oxide, for example, is used as an antiseptic and a hair bleach in low concentrations (approximately 8 percent in water solution). Over 8 percent, hydrogen peroxide is classed as an oxidizer and is toxic. Above 90 percent, it is a Class 4 oxidizer "that can undergo an explosive reaction when catalyzed or exposed to heat, shock or friction," a definition which incidentally also places hydrogen perox­ide over 90-percent concentration in the unstable (reac­tive) category. Small amounts at high concentrations may present a greater hazard than large amounts at low concen­trations. 
E103.1.3.1 Mixtures. Gases-toxic and highly toxic gases include those gases that have an LC50 of 2,000 parts per million (ppm) or less when rats are exposed for a period of 1 hour or less. To maintain consistency with the definitions for these materials, exposure data for periods other than 1 hour must be normalized to 1 hour. To classify mixtures of compressed gases that contain one or more toxic or highly toxic components, the LC50 of the mixture must be determined. Mixtures that contain only two components are binary mixtures. Those that contain more than two components are mul­ticomponent mixtures. When two or more hazardous substances (components) having an LC50 below 2,000 ppm are present in a mixture, their combined effect, rather than that of the individual substance components, must be considered. In the absence of information to the contrary, the effects of the hazards present must be considered as additive. Exceptions to the above rule may be made when there is a good reason to believe that the principal effects of the different harmful sub­stances (components) are not additive. 
For binary mixtures where the hazardous compo­nent is diluted with a nontoxic gas such as an inert gas, the LC50 of the mixture is estimated by use of the meth­odology contained in CGA P-20. The hazard zones specified in CGA P-20 are applicable for DOTn pur­poses and shall not be used for hazard classification. 
E103.1.4 Actual use, activity or process involving the material. The definition of handling, storage and use in closed systems refers to materials in packages or contain­ers. Dispensing and use in open containers or systems describes situations where a material is exposed to ambi­ent conditions or vapors are liberated to the atmosphere. Dispensing and use in open systems, then, are generally more hazardous situations than handling, storage or use in closed systems. The actual use or process may include heating, electric or other sparks, catalytic or reactive mate­rials and many other factors which could affect the hazard and must therefore be thoroughly analyzed. 
E103.1.5 Surrounding conditions. Conditions such as other materials or processes in the area, type of construc­tion of the structure, fire protection features (e.g., fire walls, sprinkler systems, alarms, etc.), occupancy (use) of adjoining areas, normal temperatures, exposure to weather, etc., must be taken into account in evaluating the hazard. 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
El03.2 Evaluation questions. The following are sample evaluation questions: 
1. 	
What is the material? Correct identification is impor­tant; exact spelling is vital. Check labels, MSDS, ask responsible persons, etc. 

2. 	
What are the concentration and strength? 

3. 	
What is the physical form of the material? Liquids, gases and finely divided solids have differing require­ments for spill and leak control and containment. 

4. 	
How much material is present? Consider in relation to permit amounts, maximum allowable quantity per control area (from Group H occupancy requirements), amounts which require detached storage and overall magnitude of the hazard. 

5. 	
What other materials (including furniture, equipment and building components) are close enough to interact with the material? 

6. 	
What are the likely reactions? 

7. 	
What is the activity involving the material? 

8. 	
How does the activity impact the hazardous character­istics of the material? Consider vapors released or hazards otherwise exposed. 

9. 	
What must the material be protected from? Consider other materials, temperature, shock, pressure, etc. 

10. 	
What effects of the material must people and the envi­ronment be protected from? 

11. 	
How can protection be accomplished? Consider: 


11.1. Proper containers and equipment. 
11.2. Separation by distance or construction. 
11.3. Enclosure in cabinets or rooms. 
11.4. Spill control, drainage and containment. 
11.5. Control systems-ventilation, special electrical, detection and alarm, extinguishment, explo­sion venting, limit controls, exhaust scrubbers and excess flow control. 
11.6. Administrative 	(operational) controls-signs, ignition source control, security, personnel training, established procedures, storage plans and emergency plans. 
Evaluation of the hazard is a strongly subjective process; therefore, the person charged with this responsibility must gather as much relevant data as possible so that the decision will be objective and within the limits prescribed in laws, pol­icies and standards. 
It may be necessary to cause the responsible persons in charge to have tests made by qualified persons or testing lab­oratories to support contentions that a particular material or process is or is not hazardous. See Section 104.7.2 of the Cal­ifornia Fire Code. 
E104  
REFERENCED STANDARDS  
CGA  P-20­ Standard for Classification  
(2003)  of Toxic Mixtures  E103.1.3.1  
CGA (2003)  P-23­ Standard for Categorizing Gas Mixtures Containmg Flammable and  
Nonflammable  
Components  E102.1.2  <  

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX F-HAZARD RANKING 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

* The Californza Code ofRegulatzons (CCR), Title 19, DlVlsJOn 1 proviSions that are found m the Californza Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX F 
HAZARD RANKING 
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. 
SECTION F1 01 
GENERAL 


FlOl.l Scope. Assignment of levels of hazards to be applied to specific hazard classes as required by NFP A 704 shall be in accordance with this appendix. The appendix is based on application of the degrees of hazard as defined in NFPA 704 arranged by hazard class as for specific categories defined in Chapter 2 of the California Fire Code and used throughout. 
F101.2 General. The hazard rankings shown in Table F101.2 have been established by using guidelines found within NFP A 704. As noted in Section 4.2 of NFP A 704, there could be specific reasons to alter the degree of hazard assigned to a specific material; for example, ignition temperature, flamma­ble range or susceptibility of a container to rupture by an internal combustion explosion or to metal failure while under pressure or because of heat from external fire. As a result, the degree of hazard assigned for the same material can vary when assessed by different people of equal competence. 
The hazard rankings assigned to each class represent rea­sonable minimum hazard levels for a given class based on the use of criteria established by NFPA 704. Specific cases of use or storage may dictate the use of higher degrees of hazard in certain cases. 
SECTION F1 02 REFERENCED STANDARDS 

NFPA 704-12 Identification of FlOl.l, < the Hazards of Materials F101.2 for Emergency Response 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE F101.2 FIRE FIGHTER WARNING PLACARD DESIGNATIONS BASED ON HAZARD CLASSIFICATION CATEGORIES 
HAZARD CATEGORY  DESIGNATION  
Combustible liquid II Combustible liquid IliA Combustible liquid IIIB Combustible dust Combustible fiber Cryogenic flammable Cryogenic oxidizing Explosive Flammable solid Flammable gas (gaseous) Flammable gas (liquefied) Flammable liquid lA Flammable liquid IB Flammable liquid IC Organic peroxide, UD Organic peroxide I Organic peroxide II Organic peroxide III Organic peroxide IV Organic peroxide V Oxidizing gas (gaseous) Oxidizing gas (liquefied) Oxidizer 4 Oxidizer 3 Oxidizer 2 Oxidizer 1 Pyrophoric gases Pyrophoric solids, liquids Unstable reactive 4D Unstable reactive 3D Unstable reactive 3N Unstable reactive 2 Unstable reactive 1 Water reactive 3 Water reactive 2 Corrosive Toxic Highly toxic  F2 F2 F1 F4 F3 F4,H3 OX,H3 R4 F2 F4 F4 F4 F3 F3 R4 F4,R3 F3,R3 F2,R2 F1, R1 None ox ox OX4 OX3 OX2 OX1 F4 F3 R4 R4 R2 R2 None W3 W2 H3,COR H3 H4  

F-Flammable category. COR-Corrosive. 
R-Reactive category. UD-Unclassified detonable material. 
H-Health category. 4D-Class 4 detonable material. 
W-Special hazard: water reactive. 3D-Class 3 detonable material. 
OX-Special hazard: oxidizing properties. 3N-Class 3 nondetonable material. 

CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENIDIX G -CRYOGENIC FLUIDS-WEIGHT AND VOLUME EQUIVALENTS 

(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), T1tle 19, DIVIsiOn 1 prov1s10ns that are found m the Califorma F1re Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX G 
CRYOGENIC FLUIDS-WEIGHT AND VOLUME EQUIVALENTS 
This appendix is for information purposes and is not intended for adoption. 
SECTION G1 01 
GENERAL 


GlOl.l Scope. This appendix is used to convert from liquid to gas for cryogenic fluids. 
G101.2 Conversion. Table Gl01.2 shall be used to deter­mine the equivalent amounts of cryogenic fluids in either the liquid or gas phase. 
Gl01.2.1 Use of the table. To use Table Gl01.2, read horizontally across the line of interest. For example, to determine the number of cubic feet of gas contained in 1.0 gallon (3.785 L) ofliquid argon, find 1.000 in the column entitled "Volume of Liquid at Normal Boiling Point." Reading across the line under the column entitled "Vol­ume of Gas at NTP" (70°F and 1 atmosphere/14.7 psia), the value of 112.45 cubic feet (3 .184 m3) is found. 
G101.2.2 Other quantities. If other quantities are of interest, the numbers obtained can be multiplied or divided to obtain the quantity of interest. For example, to deter­mine the number of cubic feet of argon gas contained in a volume of 1,000 gallons (3785 L) of liquid argon at its normal boiling point, multiply 112.45 by 1,000 to obtain 112,450 cubic feet (3184 m3). 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
TABLE G101.2 WEIGHT AND VOLUME EQUIVALENTS FOR COMMON CRYOGENIC FLUIDS 
CRYOGENIC FLUID  WEIGHT OF LIQUID OR GAS  VOLUME OF LIQUID AT NORMAL BOILING POINT  VOLUME OF GAS AT NTP  
Pounds  Kilograms  Liters  Gallons  Cubic feet  Cubic meters  
1.000  0.454  0.326  0.086  9.67  0.274  
2.205  1.000  0.718  0.190  21.32  0.604  
Argon  3.072 11.628  1.393 5.274  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  29.71 112.45  0.841 3.184  
10.340  4.690  3.366  0.889  100.00  2.832  
3.652  1.656  1.189  0.314  35.31  1.000  
1.000  0.454  3.631  0.959  96.72  2.739  
2.205  1.000  8.006  2.115  213.23  6.038  
Helium  0.275 1.042  0.125 0.473  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  26.63 100.82  0.754 2.855  
1.034  0.469  3.754  0.992  100.00  2.832  
0.365  0.166  1.326  0.350  35.31  1.000  
1.000  0.454  6.409  1.693  191.96  5.436  
2.205  1.000  14.130  3.733  423.20  11.984  
Hydrogen  0.156 0.591  0.071 0.268  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  29.95 113.37  0.848 3.210  
0.521  0.236  3.339  0.882  100.00  2.832  
0.184  0.083  1.179  0.311  35.31  1.000  
1.000  0.454  0.397  0.105  12.00  0.342  
2.205  1.000  0.876  0.231  26.62  0.754  
Oxygen  2.517 9.527  1.142 4.321  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  30.39 115.05  0.861 3.250  
8.281  3.756  3.290  0.869  100.00  2.832  
2.924  1.327  1.162  0.307  35.31  1.000  
1.000  0.454  0.561  0.148  13.80  0.391  
2.205  1.000  1.237  0.327  30.43  0.862  
Nitrogen  1.782 6.746  0.808 3.060  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  24.60 93.11  0.697 2.637  
7.245  3.286  4.065  1.074  100.00  2.832  
2.558  1.160  1.436  0.379  35.31  1.000  
1.000  0.454  1.052  0.278  22.968  0.650  
2.205  1.000  2.320  0.613  50.646  1.434  
LNG"  0.951 3.600  0.431 1.633  1.000 3.785  0.264 1.000  21.812 82.62  0.618 2.340  
4.356  1.976  4.580  1.210  100.00  2.832  
11.501  5.217  1.616  0.427  35.31  1.000  

For SI: I pound= 0.454 kg, I gallon= 3.785 L, I cubic foot= 0.02832 m3, oc = [CF)-32]/1.8, I pound per square inch atmosphere= 6.895 kPa. 
a. 	The values listed for liquefied natural gas (LNG) are "typical" values. LNG is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases, and no two LNG streams have exactly the same composition. 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE -MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
APPENDIX H-HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN (HMMP) 
AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENT (HMIS) INSTRUCTIONS 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  X  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

. . . 
..

* The Californza Code of Regulatwns (CCR), Title 19, DIVISIOn 1 provisions that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a reprmt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures ofCCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX H 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLANS 
AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENTS 
(See Sections 5001.5.1 and 5001.5.2) 

SECTIONH1 
SCOPE 


Hl.l Scope. Hazardous materials inventory statements (HMIS) and hazardous materials management plans (HMMP) which are required by the fire chief, pursuant to Chapter 50, shall be provided for hazardous materials in accordance with Appendix H. 
Exceptions: 
I. Materials which have been satisfactorily demonstrated not to present a potential danger to public health, safety or welfare, based upon the quantity or condition ofstorage, when approved. 
2. 	Chromium, copper, lead, nickel and silver need not be considered hazardous materials for the purposes of Appendix H unless they are stored in a friable, pow­dered orfinely divided state. 

Proprietary and trade secret information shall be pro­tected under the laws of the state or jurisdiction having authority. 
SECTIONH2 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY 
STATEMENTS (HMIS) 


H2.1 When Required. A separate HMIS shall be provided for each building, including its appurtenant structures, and each exterior facility in which hazardous materials are stored. 
The hazardous materials inventory statement shall list, by hazard class, all hazardous materials stored. The hazardous materials inventory statement shall include the following information for each hazardous material listed: 
I. 	Hazard class. 
2. 	
Common or trade name. 

3. 	
Chemical name, major constituents and concentrations ifa mixture. Ifa waste, the waste category. 

4. 	
Chemical Abstract Service number (CAS number) found in 29 Code ofFederal Regulations (C.P.R.). 

5. 	
Whether the material is pure or a mixture, and whether the material is a solid, liquid or gas. 

6. 	
Maximum aggregate quantity stored at any one time. 

7. 	
Storage conditions related to the storage type, tempera­ture and pressure. 



H2.2 Changes to HMJS. An amended HMIS shall be pro­vided within 30 days ofthe storage ofany hazardous materi­als which changes or adds a hazard class or which is sufficient in quantity to cause an increase in the quantity which exceeds 5 percent for any hazard class. 
SECT/ONH3 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN 
(HMMP) 

H3.1 General. Applications for a permit to store hazardous materials shall include an HMMP standard form or short form in accordance with Section H3.3 and shall provide a narrative description of the operations and processes taking place at the facility. See Figure A-H-I. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
H3.2 Information Required. The HMMP standard form shall include the information detailed in Section H3.2. 
H3.2.I General Information. General information, including business name and address, emergency con­tacts, business activity, business owner or operator, SIC code, number of employees and hours, Dunn and Brad­street number, and signature of owner, operator or desig­nated representative. 
H3.2.2 General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, the location of buildings, exterior storage facilities, perma­nent access ways, evacuation routes, parking lots, internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard class and the maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored. When required by the chief, information regarding the location of wells, flood plains, earthquake faults, surface water bodies and general land uses within 1 mile (1.609 km) ofthe facility boundaries shall be included. 
H3.2.3 Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, hazardous materials storage areas within the building and shall indicate rooms, doorways, corridors, means of egress and evacuation routes. Each hazardous materials storage facility shall be identified by a map key which lists the individual hazardous materials, their hazard class and quantity present for each area. 
H3.2.4 Hazardous materials handling. Information show­ing that activities involving the handling of hazardous materials between the storage areas and manufacturing processes on site are conducted in a manner to prevent the accidental release ofsuch materials. 
H3.2.5 Chemical capability and separation. Information showing procedures, controls, signs or other methods used to ensure separation and protection of stored materials from factors which could cause accidental ignition or reaction ofignitable, reactive or incompatible materials in each area. 
H3.2.6 Monitoring program. Information including, but not limited to, the location, type, manufacturer's specifica­tions, if applicable, and suitability of monitoring methods for each storage facility when required. 
H3.2. 7 Inspection and recording keeping. Schedules and procedures for inspecting safety and monitoring and emergency equipment. The permittee shall develop and follow a written inspection procedure acceptable to the chief for inspecting the facility for events or practices which could lead to unauthorized discharges ofhazardous materials. Inspections shall be conducted at a frequency appropriate to detect problems prior to a discharge. An inspection check sheet shall be developed to be used in conjunction with routine inspections. The check sheet shall provide for the date, time and location of inspection; note problems and dates and times of corrective actions taken; and include the name ofthe inspector and the coun­tersignature ofthe designated safety manager for the facil­ity. 
H3.2.8 Employee training. A training program appropri­ate to the types and quantities of materials stored or used shall be conducted to prepare employees to safely handle hazardous materials on a daily basis and during emergen­cies. The training program shall include: 
1. 	
Instruction in safe storage and handling of hazard­ous materials, including maintenance of monitoring records; 

2. 	
Instruction in emergency procedures for leaks, spills, fires or explosions, including shutdown of operations and evacuation procedures; and 

3. 	
Record-keeping procedures for documenting train­ing given to employees. 


H3.2.9 Emergency response. A description of facility 
emergency procedures is to be provided. H3.3 HMMP Short Form-(Minimal Storage Site). A facil­ity shall qualify as a minimal storage site if the quantity of each hazardous material stored in one or more facilities in an aggregate quantity for the facility is 500 pounds (227 kg) or less for solids, 55 gallons (208.2 L) or less for liquids, or 200 cubic feet ( 5. 7 m3) or less at NTP for compressed gases and does not exceed the threshold planning quantity as listed in 40 C.F.R., Part 355, Sections 302 and 304. The applicant for a permit for a facility which qualifies as a minimal storage site is allowed to file the short form HMMP. Such plan shall include the following components: 
1. 	
General facility information, 

2. 	
A simple line drawing of the facility showing the loca­tion ofstorage facilities and indicating the hazard class or classes and physical state ofthe hazardous materials being stored, 

3. 	
Information describing that the hazardous materials will be stored and handled in a safe manner and will be appropriately contained, separated and monitored, and 

4. 	
Assurance that security precautions have been taken, employees have been appropriately trained to handle the hazardous materials and react to emergency situa­tions, adequate labeling and warning signs are posted, adequate emergency equipment is maintained, and the disposal ofhazardous materials will be in an appropri­ate manner. 


SECT/ONH4 
MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS 


H4.I Hazardous materials inventory statements and hazard­ous materials management plans shall be maintained by the permittee for a period of not less than three years after sub­mittal of updated or revised versions. Such records shall be made available to the fire chief upon request. 
APPENDIX H 

FIGURE A-H-1 
SAMPLE FORMAT 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN (HMMP) INSTRUCTIONS 

SECTION I-FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
1.1 Part A 
1. 	
Fill out Items 1 through 11 and sign the declaration. 


2. 	
Only Part A ofthis section is required to be updated and submitted annually, or within 30 days ofa change. 


1. 2 Part B-General Facility Description (Site Plan) 
1. 	Provide a site plan on 8 112-by 1 I -inch (215 mm by 279 mm) paper, using letters on the top and bottom margins and num­bers on the right and left side margins, showing the location ofall buildings, structures, chemical loading areas, parking lots, internal roads, storm and sanitary sewers, wells, and adjacent property uses. Indicate the approximate scale, north­ern direction and date the drawing was completed. 
2 	List all special land uses within 1 mile ( 1.609 km). 

1.3 Part C-Facility Storage Map (Confidential Information) 
1. 	
Provide a floor plan ofeach building on 8 112 by II-inch (215 mm by 279 mm) paper, using letters on the top and bottom margins and numbers on the right and left side margins, with approximate scale and northern direction, showing the loca­tion ofeach storage area. Mark map clearly "Confidential-Do not disclose" for trade-secret information as specified by federal, state and local laws. 

2. 	
Identify each storage area with an identification number, letter, name or symbol. 

3. 	
Show the following: 



3.1. Accesses to each storage area. 
3.2. Location ofemergency equipment. 
3.3. The general purpose ofother areas within the facility. 

3.4. 
Location ofall aboveground and underground tanks to include sumps, vaults, below-grade treatment systems, piping, etc. 

4. 	
Map key. Provide the following on the map or in a map key or legend for each storage area: 


4.1. A list ofhazardous materials, including wastes. 
4.2. Hazard class ofeach hazardous waste. 
4.3. The maximum quantity for hazardous materials. 

4.4. Include the contents and capacity limit ofall tanks at each area and indicate whether they are above or below ground. 
4.5. List separately any radioactives, cryogens and compressed gases for each facility. 
4.6. Trade-secret information shall be listed as specified by federal, state and local laws. 
SECTION II-HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENT (HMIS) 
2.1 Part A-Declaration 
Fill out all appropriate information. 
2.2 Part B-Inventory Statement 
1. 	You must complete a separate inventory statement for all waste and nonwaste hazardous materials. List all hazardous materials in alphabetical order by hazard class. 
2. Inventory Statement Instructions: Column Information Required 
1. 	
Provide hazard class for each material. 


2. 	
Nonwaste. Provide the common or trade name of the regulated material. Waste. In lieu of trade names, you may provide the waste category. 

3. 	
Provide the chemical name and major constituents and concentrations, ifa mixture. 

4. 	
Enter the chemical abstract service number (CAS number)found in 29 C.P.R. For mixtures, enter the CAS number of the mixture as a whole if it has been assigned a number distinct from its constituents. For a mixture that has no CAS number, leave this item blank or report the CAS numbers ofas many constituent chemicals as possible. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
5. 	
Enter the following descriptive codes as they apply to each material. You may list more than one code, ifapplicable. P = Pure M = Mixture S = Solid L = Liquid G =Gas 

6. 	
Provide the maximum aggregate quantity of each material handled at any one time by the business. For underground tanks, list the maximum volume [in gallons (liters)] ofthe tank. 


6.1. 
Enter the estimated average daily amount on site during the past year. 

7. 	
Enter the units used in Column 6 as: LB =Pounds GA =Gallons CF = Cubic Feet 

8. 	
Enter the number ofdays that the material was present on site (during the last year). 

9. 	
Enter the storage codes below for type, temperature and pressure. 


Type 
A = Aboveground Tank 
B = Belowground Tank 
C = Tank inside Building 
D= Steel Drum 
E= Plastic or Nonmetallic Drum 
F= Can 
G= Carbon 
H= Silo 
I --Fiber Drum 
J = Bag 
K= Box 
L = Cylinder 
M= Glass Bottle or Jug 
N= Plastic Bottles or Jugs 
0= Tote Bin 
P= Tank Wagon 
Q= Rail Car 
R = Other 

Temperature 
4 = Ambient 
5 = Greater than Ambient 
6 = Less than Ambient, but not Cryogenic [less than -150°F (-101.1°C)} 
7 = Cryogenic conditions [less than -150°F (-101.1°C)} 

Pressure 
1 	= Ambient (Atmospheric) 
2 
Greater than Ambient (Atmospheric) 
3 = Less than Ambient (Atmospheric) 

APPENDIX H 

10. 	For each material listed, provide the Supeifund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) hazard class as listed below. You may list more than one class. These categories are defined in 40 C.F.R. 370.3. 
Physical Hazards 
F = Fire 
P = Sudden Release ofPressure 
R = Reactivity 

Health Hazards 
I = Immediate (Acute) 
D = Delayed (Chronic) 


I I. 	Waste Only. For each waste, provide the total estimated amount of hazardous waste handled throughout the course of the year. 
SECTION Ill-SEPARATION AND MONITORING 
3.1 Part A-Aboveground 
Fill out Items I through 6, or provide similar information for each storage area shown on the facility map. Use additional sheets as necessary. 
3.2 Part B-Underground 
I. 	Complete a separate page for each underground tank, sump, vault, below-grade treatment system, etc. 
2. 	Check the type of tank and method(s) that applies to your tank(s) and piping, and answer the appropriate questions. Pro­vide any additional information in the space provided or on a separate sheet. 
SECTION IV-WASTE DISPOSAL 
Check all that apply and list the associated wastes for each method checked. 
SECTION V-RECORDING KEEPING 
Include a brief description of your inspection procedures. You are also required to keep an inspection log and recordable dis­charge log, which are designed to be used in conjunction with routine inspections for all storage facilities or areas. Place a check in each box that describes your forms. If you do not use the sample forms, provide copies of your forms for review and approval. 
SECTION VI-EMERGENCY-RESPONSE PLAN 
I. 	This plan should describe the personnel, procedures and equipment available for responding to a release or threatened release of hazardous materials that are stored, handled or used on site. 
2. 	
A check or a response under each item indicates that a specific procedure is followed at the facility, or that the equipment specified is maintained on site. 

3. 	
If the facility maintains a more detailed emergency-response plan on site, indicate this in Item 5. This plan shall be made available for review by the inspecting jurisdiction. 


SECTION VII-EMERGENCY RESPONSE TRAINING PLAN 
I. 	This plan should describe the basic training plan used at the facility. 
2. 	
A check in the appropriate box indicates the training is provided or the records are maintained. 

3. 	
If the facility maintains a more detailed emergency-response training plan, indicate this in Item 4. This plan shall be made available for review by the inspecting jurisdiction. 


2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIGURE A·H-1 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SECTION 1: FACILITY DESCRIPTION 

PARTA-GENERAL INFORMATION 
1. 	
Business Name: __________________________Phone,_,_:_________ Address: ______________________________________________________________ 

2. 	
Person Responsible for the Business Name: Title: Phone: 

3. 	
Emergency Contacts: 

Name: 	Title: Home Number: Work Number: 

4. 
Person Responsible for the Application/Principal Contact: 



Name:  Title:  Phone:  
5. Property Owner:  
Name:  Address:  Phone:  

6. 
Principal Business Activity:---------------------,-----------------------------­

7. 
Number ofEmployees:-----------------------------------------------------­

8. 
Number ofShifts:-----------------------------------­

9. 
Hours ofOperation: 

10. 
SIC Code:----------------------------------­


11. Dunn and Bradstreet Number: ---------------------------------------------­
12. Declaration----------------------------------------------------­
1 certify that the information above and on the following parts is true and correct to the best ofmy knowledge. 
Signature: ---------------------------------~Date:-----------------------­
Print Name: _________________________________Title: ----------------------------­(Must be signed by owner/operator or designated representative) 
APPENDIX H 

PART B-GENERAL FACILITY DESCRIPTION/SITE PLAN 
(Use grid format on next page.) 
Special land uses within 1 mile ( 1.609 km): ______ 

PART C-FACILITY MAP 
(Use grid format below.) 

BUSINESS NAME  DATE  
ADDRESS CITY  PAGE___ OF  

(Use grid format above) 

SECTION II: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENT PART A-DECLARATION 
1. 
Business Name:------------------------­

2. 
Address:---------------------------­

3. 
Declaration: Under penalty ofperjury, 1 declare the above and subsequent information, provided as part ofthe hazardous materials inventory statement, is true and correct. Signature: _____________________.Date:---------------­Print Name: _____________________Title:----------------­


(Must be signed by owner/operator or designated representative) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIGURE A-II-E-1-(Continued) 
PART B-HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENT 

(1) HAZARD CLASS  (2) COMMON/ TRADE NAME  (3) CHEMICAL NAME, COMPONENTS AND CONCENTRATION  (4) CHEMICAL ABSTRACT SERVICE NO.  (5) PHYSICAL STATE  (6) MAXIMUM QUANTITY ON HAND AT ANY TIME  (7) UNITS  (8) DAYS ON SITE  (9) STORAGE CODE(TVPE, PRES., TEMP.)  (10) SARA CLASS  (11) ANNUAL WASTE THROUGHPUT  

SECTION /11: SEPARATION, SECONDARY CONTAINMENT AND MONITORING PART A-ABOVEGROUND STORAGE AREAS 
Storage Area Identification (as shown on facility map): 
_________________  
I. Storage Type:  
_____Original Containers  _____ Safety Cans  
_____ Inside Machinery  _____ Bulk Tank  
____55-gallon (208.2 L)  _____Outside Barrels  
Drums or Storage Shed  
Pressurized Vessel  

_____ Other:--------------------------------------­
2. Storage Location:  
_____ Inside Building  _____Outside Building  
_____ Secured  
3. Separation:  
_____All Materials  _____One-hour Separation  
_____Compatible Wall/Partition  
_____ Separated by 20 Feet ( 6096 mm)  _____Approved Cabinets  
Other:  

4. Secondary Containment:  
_____ Approved Cabinet  _____ Secondary Drums  
_____ Tray  _____Bermed, Coated Floor  
_____Vaulted Tank  _____ Double-wall Tank  

_____ Other:---------------------------------------­
5. Monitoring: 
_____ Visual _____ Continuous _____Other:------------------------------------­
Attach specifications ifnecessary 
6. Monitoring Frequency: _____ Daily _____ Weekly 
_____ Other:-----------------------------­Attach specifications ifnecessary 
APPENDIX H 

APPENDIXH 
FIGURE A-Il-E-1-(Continued) 

SECTION Ill: SEPARATION, CONTAINMENT AND MONITORING 
PART B-UNDERGROUND 

SINGLE-WALL TANKS AND PIPING 

Tank Area Identification (as shown on facility map): -------------------­
1. __Baclifill Vapor Wells Model and Manufacturer: 
Continuous or Monthly Testing:----------------------------------­
2. 
__Groundwater Monitoring Wells 

3. 
__Monthly Precision Tank Test 

4. 
__Piping-

Monitoring Method:--------------------------------------­Frequency:-----------------------------------------­

5. 
Other:--------------------------------------­


DOUBLE-WALL TANKS AND PIPING 
Tank Area Identification (as shown on facility map): ____________________________ 
1. 
Method ofmonitoring the annular space:-----------------------------­

2. 
Frequency: 


____Continuous ____ Daily ____ Weekly ____ Other:--------------------------------------­
3. 
List the type ofsecondary containment for piping:--------------------------­

4. 
List the method ofmonitoring the secondary containment for piping:-------------------­

5. 
Are there incompatible materials within the same vault? 
___ Yes No 
Ifyes, how is separate secondary containment provided? __________________________ 



Note: If you have continuous monitoring equipment, you shall maintain copies ofall service and maintenance work. Such reports shall be made available for review on site, and shall be submitted to the fire prevention bureau upon request. Attach additional sheets as necessary. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
APPENDIX H  
APPENDIXH FIGURE A-II-E-I-(Continued)  
SECTION IV: WASTE DISPOSAL __Discharge to the Sanitary Sewer-Wastes: ________  ______ Pretreatment-Wastes:--------------------------­ 

Licensed Waste Hauler -------~Recycle________ 
Wastes: Wastes:----------------------------­
_____ Other-
Describe Method:--------------------------------------­Wastes: ___________ 
____ No Waste 
SECTION V: RECORD KEEPING 
Description ofour inspection program:-------------------------------­
__We will use the attached sample forms in our inspection program. __We will not use the sample forms. We have attached a copy ofour own forms. 
SECTION VI: EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN 
1. In the event ofan emergency, the following shall be notified: 
A. On-site Responders: 
Name: Title: Home Number: 
B. Method ofNotification to Responder: Automatic Alarm Phone Manual Alarm Verbal 
Other:---------------------------------------­
C. Agency: Phone Number: 
Fire Department: 
California Emergency Management Agency (Cal EMA): 
Other: 

2. Designated Local Emergency Medical Facility: 
Name: Title: Phone (24 hours): 
APPENDIXH 

3. Mitigation Equipment: 
A. Monitoring Devices: ___ Toxic or flammable gas detection ___Fluid detection 
Other:_________________________________________ 
SECTION IV: WASTE DISPOSAL-continued 
B. Spill Containment: Absorbents 
Other:----------------­
C. Spill Control and Treatment:  
__Vapor Scrubber  Mechanical Ventilation  
__Pumps/vacuums  ___Secondary Containment  
__Neutralizer  Other:-----------------------­ 
4. Evacuation:  

__Immediate area evacuation routes posted __Entire building evacuation procedures developed __Assembly areas preplanned __Evacuation maps posted 
Other:---------------------------------------­
5. Supplemental hazardous materials emergency response plan on site. 
Location:_____________________________________________ 

Responsible Person:---------------------------------------­Phone:______________________________________________ 
SECTION VII: EMERGENCY-RESPONSE TRAINING PLAN 
I. Person responsible for the emergency-response training plan: 
Name: Title: Phone (24 hours): 
2. Training Requirements: 

A. All employees trained in the following as indicated: 
__Procedures for internal alarm/notification 
__Procedures for notification ofexternal emergency-response organization 
__Location and content ofthe emergency-response plan 

B. Chemical handlers are trained in the following as indicated: 
__Safe methods for handling and storage ofhazardous materials 
__Proper use ofpersonal protective equipment 
__Locations and proper use offire-and spill-control equipment 
__Specific hazards ofeach chemical to which they may be exposed 

C. Emergency-response team members are trained in the following: 
__Procedures for shutdown ofoperations 
__Procedures for using, maintaining and replacing facility emergency and monitoring equipment 

3. 
The following records are maintained for all employees: 
__Verification that training was completed by the employee 
__Description ofthe type and amount ofintroductory and continuing training 
__Documentation on and description ofemergency-response drills conducted at the facility 


4. 
A more comprehensive and detailed emergency-response training plan is maintained on site. 
Location: _____________________________________________ 



Responsible Person:---------------------------------------­
Phone: _______________________________________________ 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX I -FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-NONCOMPLIANT CONDITIONS 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

Adopting Agency Adopt Entire Chapter  BSC  T-24 SFM  T-19*  1  2 HCD  1/AC  AC  ss DSA  1 2 3 4 OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1] Chapter I Section  

... 
..

* The Califorma Code ofRegulatwns (CCR), Tttle 19, Dtvtswn 1 prov!Slons that are found m the Califorma Fzre Code are a repnnt from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user's convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX I 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS-NONCOMPLIANT CONDITIONS 
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. 
SECTION 1101 
NONCOMPLIANT CONDITIONS 


1101.1 General. This appendix is intended to identify condi­tions that can occur when fire protection systems are not properly maintained or components have been damaged. This appendix is not intended to provide comprehensive inspec­tion, testing and maintenance requirements, which are found in NFPA 10, 25 and 72. Rather, its intent is to identify prob­lems that are readily observable during fire inspections. 
1101.2 Noncompliant conditions requiring component replacement. The following conditions shall be deemed non­compliant and shall cause the related component(s) to be replaced to comply with the provisions of this code: 
1. 	Sprinkler heads having any of the following conditions: 
1.1. Signs of leakage; 
1.2. Paint or other ornamentation that is not factory applied; 
1.3. Evidence of corrosion including, but not limited to, discoloration or rust; 
1.4. Deformation or damage of any part; 
1.5. Improper orientation of sprinkler head; 
1.6. Empty glass bulb; 
1.7. Sprinkler heads manufactured prior to 1920; 
1.8. Replacement sprinkler heads that do not match existing sprinkler heads in orifice size, K-factor temperature rating, coating or deflector type; or 

1.9. 
Sprinkler heads for the protection of cooking equipment that have not been replaced within one year. 


2. 
Water pressure and air pressure gauges that have been installed for more than five years and have not been tested to within 3 percent accuracy. 


1101.3 Noncompliant conditions requiring component repair or replacement. The following shall be deemed non­compliant conditions and shall cause the related compo­nent(s) to be repaired or replaced to comply with the provisions of this code: 
1. 	Sprinkler and standpipe system piping and fittings hav­ing any of the following conditions: 
1.1. Signs of leakage; 
1.2. Evidence of corrosion; 
1.3. Misalignment; or 

1.4. 
Mechanical damage. 


2. 
Sprinkler piping support having any 	of the following conditions: 


2.1. Materials resting on or hung from sprinkler pip­ing; 

2.2. 
Damaged or loose hangers or braces. 


3. 
Class II and Class III standpipe systems having any of the following conditions: 


3.1. No hose or nozzle, where required; 
3.2. Hose threads incompatible with fire department hose threads; 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
3.3. Hose connection cap missing; 
3.4. Mildew, cuts, abrasions and deterioration evi­dent; 
3.5. Coupling damaged; 
3.6. Gaskets missing or deteriorated; or 

3.7. 
Nozzle missing or obstructed. 


4. 
Hose racks and cabinets having any of the following conditions: 


4.1. Difficult to operate or damaged; 
4.2. Hose improperly racked or rolled; 
4.3. Inability of rack to swing 90 degrees (1.57 rad) out of the cabinet; 
4.4. Cabinet locked, except 	as permitted by this code; 
4.5. Cabinet door will not fully open; or 

4.6. 
Door glazing cracked or broken. 


5. 	
Portable fire extinguishers having any of the following conditions: 


5.1. Broken seal or tamper indicator; 
5.2. Expired maintenance tag; 
5.3. Pressure gauge indicator in "red"; 
5.4. Signs of leakage or corrosion; 
5.5. Mechanical 	damage, denting or abrasion of tank; 
5.6. Presence of repairs such as welding, soldering or brazing; 
5.7. Damaged threads; or 

5.8. 
Damaged hose assembly, couplings 	or swivel joints. 


6. 	
Fire alarm and detection control equipment, initiating devices and notification appliances having any of the following conditions: 


6.1. Corroded or leaking batteries or terminals; 
6.2. Smoke detectors having paint or other ornamen­tation that is not factory-applied; 
6.3. Mechanical damage to heat or smoke detectors; or 
6.4. 
Tripped fuses. 

7. 	
Fire department connections having any of the follow­ing conditions: 


7.1. Fire department connections are not visible or accessible from the fire apparatus access road; 
7.2. Couplings or swivels are damaged; 
7.3. Plugs and caps are missing or damaged; 
7.4. Gaskets are deteriorated; 
7.5. Check valve is leaking; or 
7.6. Identification signs are missing. 

8. 
Fire pumps having any of the following conditions: 


8.1. Pump 	room temperature is less than 40°F (4.40C); 
8.2. Ventilating louvers are not freely operable; 
8.3. Corroded or leaking system piping; 
8.4. Diesel fuel tank is less than two-thirds full; or 
8.5. Battery readings, 	lubrication oil or cooling water levels are abnormal. 
SECTION 1102 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 


NFPA 10-10 Portable Fire Extinguishers 1101.1 
NFPA 25-11 In~ection, TestinWnd aintenance of ater-based 1101.1 Fire Protection Systems 
NFPA 72-10 National Fire Alarm Code 1101.1 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE-MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX J-BUILDING INFORMATION SIGN 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 


SECTION J1 01 
GENERAL 


JlOl.l Scope. New buildings shall have a building informa­tion sign(s) that shall comply with Sections 1101.1.1 through 1101.7. Existing buildings shall be brought into conformance with Sections 1101.1 through 1101.9 when one of the follow­ing occurs: 
1. 	
The fire department conducts an annual inspection intended to verify compliance with this section, or any required inspection. 

2. 	
When a change in use or occupancy has occurred. 


Exceptions: 
1. 	
Group U occupancies. 

2. 	
One-and two-family dwellings. 


JlOl.l.l Sign location. The building information sign shall be placed at one of the following locations: 
1. 	
Upon the entry door or sidelight at a minimum height of 42 inches (1067 mm) above the walking surface on the address side of the building or struc­ture. 

2. 
Upon the exterior surface of the building or structure on either side of the entry door, not more than than 3 feet (76 mm) from the entrance door, at a minimum height of 42 inches (1067 mm) above the walking surface on the address side of the building or struc­ture. 

3. 
Conspicuously placed inside an 	enclosed entrance lobby, on any vertical surface within 10 feet (254 


• 

mm) of the entrance door at a minimum height of 42 inches (1067 mm) above the walking surface. 
4. 
Inside the building's fire command center. 

5. 	
On the exterior of the fire alarm control unit or on the wall immediately adjacent to the fire alarm con­trol unit door where the alarm panel is located in the enclosed main lobby. 



J101.1.2 Sign features. The building information sign shall consist of: 
1. 	
White reflective background with red letters; 

2. 
Durable material; 

3. 	
Numerals shall be Roman or Latin numerals, as required, or alphabet letters; and 

4. 
Permanently affixed to the building 	or structure in an approved manner. 



J101.1.3 Sign shape. The building information sign shall be a Maltese cross as shown in Figure 1101.1.3. 
J101.1.4 Sign size and lettering. The minimum size of the building information sign and lettering shall be in accordance with the following: 
1. 	
The width and height shall be 6 inches by 6 inches (152 mm by 152 mm). 

2. 	
The height or width of each Maltese cross wing area shall be 11inches (29 mm) and have a stroke width 


/8 
of 1inch (13 mm). 
/2 
3. The center 	of the Maltese cross, a circle or oval, shall be 3 inches (76 mm) in diameter and have a stroke width of 1inch (6 mm). 
/2 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
4. 	All Roman numerals and alphabetic designations, shall be 11/ 4 inch (32 mm) height and have a stroke width of 1inch (6 mm). 
/4 

J101.2 Sign designations. Designations shall be made based upon the construction type, content, hazard, fire protection systems, life safety and occupancy. Where multiple designa­tions occur within a classification category, the designation used shall be based on the greatest potential risk. 
J101.3 Construction type (top wing). The construction types shall be designated by assigning the appropriate Roman numeral, and letter, placed inside the top wing of the Maltese cross. The hourly rating provided is for the structural framing in accordance with Table 601 of the California Building Code, 
FIRE-RESISTANCECONSTRUCTION TYPE RATING 

!A-Noncombustible 3 Hours 
IS-Noncombustible 2 Hours 
IIA-Noncombustible I Hour 
liB-Noncombustible 0 Hours 
IliA-Noncombustible/combustible 1 Hour 
IIIB-Noncombustible/combustible OHours 
IV-Heavy timber (HT) HT 
VA-Combustible 1 Hour 
VB-Combustible 0 Hours 

J101.4 Fire protection systems (right wing). The fire pro­tection system shall be designated by determining its level of protection and assigning the appropriate designation to the right wing of the Maltese cross. Where multiple systems are provided, all shall be listed: 
AS Automatic sprinkler system installed throughout 
DS Dry sprinkler system and designated areas FA Fire alarm system 
FP Fire pump 
FW Fire wall and designated areas 
PAS Pre-action sprinkler system and designated floor 
PS Partial automatic sprinkler system, and designate floor 
CES Chemical extinguishing system and designated area 
CS Combination sprinkler and standpipe system 
S Standpipe system 
NS No system installed Jl01.5 Occupancy type (bottom wing). The occupancy of a building or structure shall be designated in accordance with the occupancy classification found in Section 302.1 of the California Building Code and the corresponding designation shall be placed in the bottom wing of the Maltese cross. When a building or structure contains a mixture of uses and occupancies; all uses and occupancies shall be identified. 
A Assembly 
B Business 
E Educational 
F Factory or Industrial 
H High Hazard 
I Institutional 
M Mercantile 
R Residential 
J101.6 Hazards of content (left wing). The hazards of build­ing contents shall be designated by one of the following clas­sifications as defined in NFPA 13 and the appropriate designation shall be placed inside the left wing of the Maltese cross: 
(Top wing) 
(Right wing) 
(Left wing) 


APPENDIXJ 

> 

LH Light hazard 
MH Moderate hazard 
HH High hazard 

J101.7 Tactical considerations (center circle). The center circle shall include the name of the local fire service and when required the letters TC for tactical considerations. When fire fighters conduct preplan operations, a unique situa­tion(s) for tactical considerations shall be identified and the information provided to the fire dispatch communications center to further assist fire fighters in identifying that there is special consideration(s) for this occupancy. Special consider­ation designations include, but are not limited to: 
1. 	
Impact-resistant drywall. 

2. 	
Impact-resistant glazing, such as blast or hurricane-type glass. 

3. 	
All types of roof and floor structural members includ­ing but not limited to post-tension concrete, bar joists, solid wood joists, rafters, trusses, cold-formed galva­nized steel, I-joists and I-beams; green roof with vege­tation, soil and plants. 

4. 
Hazardous materials (explosives, chemicals, plastics, etc.). 

5. 	
Solar panels and DC electrical energy. 

6. 	
HV AC system; and smoke management system for pressurization and exhaust methods. 

7. 
Other unique characteristic(s) within the building that are ranked according to a potential risk to occupants and fire fighters. 



J101.8 Sign classification maintenance, building informa­tion. Sign maintenance shall comply with each of the follow­ing: 
1. 	
Fire departments in the jurisdiction shall define the des­ignations to be placed within the sign. 

2. 	
Fire departments in the jurisdiction shall conduct annual inspections to verify compliance with this sec­tion of the code and· shall notify the owner, or the owner's agent, of any required updates to the sign in accordance with fire department designations and the owner, or the owner's agent, shall comply within 30 days. 

3. 	
The owner of a building shall be responsible for the maintenance and updates to the sign in accordance with fire department designations. 



J101.9 Training. Jurisdictions shall train all fire department personnel on Sections 1101.1 through 1101.9. 
SECTION J1 02 
REFERENCED STANDARDS 


NFPA 13-10 Installation of Sprinkler Systems 1101.6 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE – MATRIX ADOPTION TABLE 
APPENDIX K – TEMPORARY HAUNTED HOUSES, GHOST WALKS 
AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENT USES 
(Matrix Adoption Tables are non-regulatory, intended only as an aid to the user. 
See Chapter 1 for state agency authority and building applications.) 
(Not adopted by the State Fire Marshal) 

Adopting Agency  BSC  SFM  HCD  DSA  OSHPD  BSCC  DHS  AGR  DWR  CEC  CA  SL  SLC  
T-24  T-19*  1  2  1/AC  AC  SS  1  2  3  4  
Adopt Entire Chapter  
Adopt Entire Chapter as amended (amended sections listed below)  
Adopt only those sections that are listed below  
[California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1]  
Chapter / Section  


*The California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 19, Division 1 provisions that are found in the California Fire Code are a reprint from the current CCR, Title 19, Division 1 text for the code user’s convenience only. The scope, applicability and appeals procedures of CCR, Title 19, Division I remain the same. 
APPENDIX K 
TEMPORARY HAUNTED HOUSES, GHOST WALKS 
AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENT USES 

The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. 
SECTION K101 
GENERAL 


K101.1 Scope. These regulations shall apply to temporary haunted houses, ghost walks, or similar amusement uses, where decorative materials and confusing sounds and/or visual effects are present and shall be in accordance with this Appendix. 
K101.2 Permits. An operational permit shall be required for haunted houses, ghost walks, or similar amusement uses in accordance with Appendix K101.2. 
K101.2.1 Permit documents. The permit application shall include a dimensioned site plan and floor plan. 
A site plan showing the following: 
1. 	
The proximity of the event building(s) to other struc­tures or hazardous areas. 

2. 	
The path of travel from the event building or area to the public way. 

3. 	
The location of exterior evacuation assembly points. 


A floor plan showing the following: 
1. 	
Dimensions of the area being used (include total square footage, width, and types of exits, aisles, or interior exit pathways, etc.). 

2. 	
The path of travel shall include the layout of any mazes, mirrors or other display items that may con­fuse the egress paths. 



3. 	
A brief description of what will be depicted in each room or area along the walk or course, including the type of special effects to be utilized. 

4. 	
Location of exits, exit signs, and emergency lighting. 

5. 	
Location of electrical panel(s) and light switches. 

6. 	
Identification of what the normal or prior use of the structure(s) being used is (i.e., auditorium, school, church, etc.). 

7. 	
Accessible egress routes. 

8. 	
When required, areas of refuge. 

9. 	
When required by Section 907.2.12, fire alarm panel location, manual fire alarm boxes, and horn/strobe locations. 

10. 	
Portable fire extinguisher locations. 

11. 	
The location and fuel capacity of all generators. 


SECTION K102 
DEFINITIONS 


K102.1 DECORATIVE MATERIALS. All materials used for decorative, acoustical or other effect (such as curtains, draperies, fabrics, streamers, and surface coverings) and all other materials utilized for decorative effect (such as batting, cloth, cotton, hay stalks, straw, vines, leaves, trees, moss and similar items), including foam plastics and other materials containing foam plastics. 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
K102.2 HAUNTED HOUSE. A temporary building or struc­ture, or portion thereof, which contains a system that trans­ports passengers or provides a walkway through a course so arranged that the means of egresses are not apparent due to theatrical distractions, not visible due to low illumination, are disguised or are not readily available due to the method of transportation through the building or structure. 
K102.3 GHOST WALKS. Similar to haunted houses and may include both indoor and outdoor areas where the means of egresses are similarly not readily identifiable. 
SECTION K103 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 


K103.1 Allowable structures. Haunted houses, ghost walks, and similar amusement uses shall only be located in struc­tures that comply with the provisions for Special Amusement Buildings in accordance with the California Building Code. 
K103.2 Tents or membrane structures. Tents and membrane structures may be used when in compliance with all applica­ble requirements of this regulation and when the total floor area of the tent is less than 1,000 square feet and the travel distance to an exit from any location is less than 50 feet. 
K103.3 Fire evacuation plans. A fire safety and evacuation plan that complies with Section 404 of the this code shall be submitted. 
K103.4 Staffing. The event shall be adequately staffed by qualified person(s) to control the occupant load and assist patrons in exiting should an evacuation become necessary. Staffing level shall be determined upon review of plans and may be increased at the discretion of the Fire Code Official. 
K103.5 Occupant load. Maximum occupant load shall be in accordance with Chapter 10, Table 1004.1.1. A sign stating maximum occupancy shall be posted in a visible location near the entrance. The attendant(s) shall control the flow of patrons so as not to exceed this limit. 
K103.6 Exits. Exiting shall be in accordance with Chapter 10 and this section. 
1. 
Two exits shall be provided from each room with an occupant load of 50 or more. Required exit doors shall swing in the direction of egress. 

2. 
Illuminated exit signs shall be provided at each exit serving an occupant load of 50 or more. 

3. 
Exit doors serving an occupant load of 50 or more shall not be provided with a latch or lock unless it is panic hardware. 

4. 
When tents or membrane structures are approved for use, curtains shall not be allowed to cover the exits. 

5. 
Emergency lighting shall be provided in exit pathways. 

6. 
Exhibits and decorative materials shall not obstruct, confuse, or obscure exits, exit pathways, exit signs or emergency lights. 

7. 
Additional exit pathway markings, such as low level exit signs and directional exit path markings, may be required. 


K103.7 Fire protection. Haunted houses and ghost walks shall be provided with fire protection systems in accordance with Appendix K103.6. 
Exception: When the total floor area of haunted houses or indoor portions of ghost walks are less than 1,000 square feet and the travel distance to an exit is less than 50 feet. 
K103.7.1 Fire sprinkler protection. An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required for haunted houses and indoor portions of ghost walks. Fire sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with Section 903. 
K103.7.2 Fire detection systems. An approved automatic fire detection system shall be provided in accordance with Section 907.2.12, as required for amusement buildings. 
K103.7.3 Alarm. Activation of any single smoke detector, the fire sprinkler system, or other automatic fire detection device shall be in accordance with Section 907.2.12.1. 
K103.7.4 Emergency voice alarm. Provide an emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with Section 907.2.12.3, as required for amusement buildings. 
K103.7.5 Portable fire extinguishers. Fire extinguishers shall have a minimum 2A-10B:C rating. Fire extinguish­ers shall be properly mounted and shall be visible and accessible at all times. Clearly identify locations with signs or reflective tape. Fire extinguishers shall be located within 50 of feet travel distance from anywhere in the building. 
K103.8 Electrical. When required, a permit shall be obtained from the local building official. 
K103.8.1 Extension cords. Extension cords shall be UL listed and shall be appropriate for the intended use. 
K103.8.2 Power strips. Only UL listed power strips with overcurrent protection shall be used when the number of outlets provided is inadequate. Power strips shall be plugged directly into the outlet, and shall not be plugged into one another in series. 
K103.8.3 String lighting. Manufacturer’s installation guidelines shall be followed for the maximum allowable number of string lights that can be connected. When con­necting string lights together, the total amperage of all string lights shall be calculated to ensure that they do not exceed the amperage for the extension cord and circuit. 
K103.8.4 Protection. All extension cords and power strips shall be adequately protected from foot traffic. 
K103.8.5 Portable generators. When portable generators are utilized, they shall be diesel fuel type and located a minimum of 20 feet away from all structures. 
K103.9 Decorative materials. Interior wall, ceiling, and floor finishes shall be Class A rated in accordance with the Cali­fornia Building Code. 
K103.9.1 Flame retardant. All decorative materials shall be both inherently flame retardant and labeled as such, or shall be treated with a listed flame-retardant material. If the material is treated by the user, a container and receipt will serve as proof. 
BUFF 

HISTORY NOTE APPENDIX 
California Fire Code 
(Title 24, Part 9, California Code of Regulations) 

For prior code history, see the History Note Appendix to the California Fire Code 2010 Triennial Edition, effective Janu­ary 1, 2011. 
1. 	
SFM 03-12—Adoption of the 2012 edition of the Inter­national Fire Code published by the International Code Council, for incorporation into the 2013 California Fire Code, CCR, Title 24, Part 9 with amendments for the State Fire Marshal regulated occupancies, effective on January 1, 2014. 

2. 
Errata to correct editorial errors within the preface and Chapter 2, 4, 5, App. B, App. C and App. K of this code. Effective January 1, 2014. 



2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 	JANUARY 1, 2014 ERRATA 
INDEX 

A 

ABANDONED PREMISES (see VACANT PREMISES) ABANDONMENT Flammable and combustible liquid tanks .......................5704.2.13 ACCEPTANCE TESTING Fire protection system installations ............... 901.5, 904.4, 907.8 Fire pumps ........................... 913.5.1 Flammable and combustible liquid tanks ..................... 5704.2.12.1 Single-and multiple-station smoke alarms ....................... 907.8.1 Smoke control systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909.18 ACCESS, FIRE DEPARTMENT Aviation facilities ....................... 2003.4 Construction and demolition sites .......... 3310.1 Doors for ................ 504.2, 3205.4, 3206.6.1 Equipment to ............................ 509 High-piled storage buildings .............. 3206.6 Tire storage ............................3406 ACCESS ROADS, FIRE APPARATUS ......... 503 Aviation facilities ....................... 2003.4 Bridges ..............................503.2.6 Building openings and roofs ................. 504 Defined .................................202 High-piled storage ..................... 3206.6 Lumber yards ................... 2803.6, 2809.3 Obstructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503.4 Tents and membrane structures .......... 3103.8.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS .......... 1007 Defined .................................202 Standby power ................. 604.2.5, 604.2.6 ACCESSIBLE ROUTE Defined .................................202 ACETYLENE (see WELDING AND OTHER HOTWORK) Gas ................................. 3505.4 Generators .............................3508 ADDRESS NUMBER (see PREMISES IDENTIFICATION) ADMINISTRATION Alternative methods and materials ..... 1 04.9, 501.4 Applicability.............................. 102 Approval ............. 104.6.1, 401.2, 408.11.1.1, 603.1.2, 2307.2, 2308.2, 3101.2, 5706.4. 7.1 
Approved materials and equipment . . . . . . . . . 1 04.7 

Board of appeal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108.1 
Emergencies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 04.11 
General .................................101 
Inspections .......................1 04.6.2, 106 
Maintenance .............................1 07 
Permits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 04.2, 1 05 
Right of entry ........................... 104.3 
Unsafe buildings .......................... 11 0 
Violations ...............................1 09 
AEROSOL CONTAINER 
Defined .................................202 
AEROSOL WAREHOUSE ................. 5104.4 
Defined .................................202 
AEROSOLS .........................Chapter 51 
Classification levels ..................... 5103.1 
Classification of products ........... Table 5103.1 
Defined .................................202 
Inside storage ...........................51 04 
Manufacturing facilities ....................51 07 
Nonsegregated storage ............... 51 04.3.1, 
Table 5104.3.1 

Outside storage ..........................5105 Permit required ........................105.6.1 Retail display ............................5106 Segregated storage ......5104.3.2, Table 5104.3.2 AGENCY Defined .................................202 AGENT Defined .................................202 AGRICULTURAL BUILDING (Occupancy Group U) Defined .................................202 Occupant load ...................Table 1004.1.2 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS .......5203.4, 6001.1 AIR-INFLATED STRUCTURES (see TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES) Defined .................................202 AIR-SUPPORTED STRUCTURES (see TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES) ......... Chapter 31 Defined .................................202 AIRCRAFT Defueling......................2006.5, 2006.18 Fueling ................................2006 Maintenance ............................2004 AIRCRAFT MOTOR-VEHICLE FUEL­DISPENSING FACILITY Defined .................................202 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
AIRCRAFT OPERATION AREA (AOA) Defined ................................ 202 AIRCRAFT-RELATED OCCUPANCIES, FIRE PROTECTION FOR .................914.8 AIRPORT Defined ................................ 202 AIRPORT TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWERS . . . . . . . . 604.2.18, 907.2.13, 907.2.22, 914.8.1 
AISLE ACCESSWAY .....................1017.4 
Defined ................................ 202 

AISLE(S)........................308.1.7.1, 1017 Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 028 Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 028.14.1 Defined ................................ 202 Fixed seating ..........................1004.7 Hazardous materials ................5003.11.3.9 High-piled combustible storage ..... 3205.4, 3206.9 Obstruction of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 030.3, 1 030.5 Tents ............................. 3103.12.5 Termination ......................... 1028.9.5 Travel distance ........................1 028.7 Walking surface ........................1 003.4 Width .............. 1028.9.1, 1104.22, 1 028.9.2, 3206.9.1' 5904.1.2 ALARM .......................903.4.2, 2405.9.3, 2703.13.2.1' 6004.2.2.1 0.1 Activations ........................... 401.3.2 Audible.............................907 .5.2.1 Coded signals ........................ 408.6.2 Signals ..................... 903.4.1, 2703.12.3 Testing ................... 901.5, 901.6, 904.4.2 Visible .............................907.5.2.3 Warning signs ........................ 904.3.4 
ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE ....... 907.5.2 Defined ................................ 202 ALARM, NUISANCE Defined ................................ 202 ALARM SIGNAL Defined ................................ 202 ALARM, SMOKE Defined ................................ 202 ALARM VERIFICATION FEATURE 
Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 ALCOHOL-BASED HAND RUB ..... 5001.1, 5705.5 Defined ................................ 202 
ALCOHOL-BLENDED FUELS Defined ................................ 202 Dispensing ............................2306.8 
ALTERATION Defined ................................ 202 
ALTERNATING TREAD DEVICE ...........1009.13 Defined................................. 202 ALTERNATIVE AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS ........... 904 ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS AND METHODS ........................104.9 
AMBULATORY CARE FACILITY (Occupancy Group B) Automatic sprinklers .................... 903.2.2 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Fire alarm systems ....................907.2.2.1 
AMMONIA Diffusion systems ..................... 606.12.6 Refrigerant .......................... 606.12.3 
AMMONIUM NITRATE .................. 5601.1.5 
Defined................................. 202 

AMMUNITION, SMALL ARMS ............... 5606 Defined................................. 202 Storage and handling ..... 1 05.6.14, 5601.2.1, 5604 
AMUSEMENT BUILDING, SPECIAL (see SPECIAL AMUSEMENT BUILDING) AMUSEMENT PARK STRUCTURES (Assembly, Group A-5) Defined................................. 202 ANNUNCIATOR Defined................................. 202 APPEALS, BOARD OF ..................... 1 08 APPENDICES.......................... 101.2.1 APPLIANCES ............................605.7 Chimneys ..............................603.6 Commercial kitchen hoods .................. 609 Cooking ............................ 5705.3.3 Fuel-fired ............................... 603 Heat-producing.........................2301.6 Heating................. 603.5, 605.1 0, 5705.3.3 Lighting............................. 5705.3.3 Unsafe ................................603.7 APPLICABILITY (ofthe code)................ 102 APPROVED Defined................................. 202 ARC WELDING (see WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK) AREA, BUILDING Defined................................. 202 AREA OF REFUGE ......................1007.6 Defined................................. 202 ARRAY (storage) ................. 3205.7, 3207.4 Defined................................. 202 ARRAY, CLOSED (storage) ........ 3205.7, 3207.4 Defined................................. 202 ARTIFICIAL BARRICADE (see BARRICADE) ASH TRAYS .............................310.6 
INDEX 

ASHES, HOT ............................ 305.2 

ASPHALT (TAR) KETTLES ........... 303,3317.2 

ASPHYXIANT GASES ............. 5004.7,5307.1 

ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES (Group A) 
Aisles ................................. 1 028 
Announcements .......................408.2.2 
Automatic sprinklers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903.2 
Candles ................................308 
Cellulose nitrate film ................ 1 05.6.5, 306 
Decorative materials ................... 806, 807 
Defined (Occupancy classification) ............ 202 
Doors ................................. 1008 
Egress ........................... Chapter 1 0 
Emergency evacuation drill ................. 405 
Emergency power ......................604.2.1 
Employee training .........................406 
Evacuation plans .........................404 
Fire alarm systems ..................... 907.2.1 
Fire safety plans ..........................404 
Furnishings ........................... 807.4.2 
Interior finish .............................803 
LP-gas installations ................. Chapter 61 
Motion picture projection rooms . . . . . . . . . . . . 306.1 
Obstruction of exits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 030.3 
Occupant load calculation ................. 1 004 
Open-flame devices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308.3 
Panic hardware ...................... 1 008.1.1 0 
Permits required .............. 1 05.6.34, 105.6.35 
Portable fire extinguishers .................. 906 
Posting maximum occupant load . . . . . . . . . . 1 004.3 
Prohibit smoking ..........................310 
Pyroxylin-coated fabric . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805.4 
Pyroxylin plastic motion picture film storage ... 306.1 
Seating ................................ 1 028 
Seating plan ..........................408.2.1 
Standpipe systems ........................ 905 
Storage, flammable liquids ............ 5704.3.4.2 
Tents............................. Chapter 31 
Vehicles in ......................... 3104.18.4 

ASSISTED RESCUE AREAS, EXTERIOR .... 1007.7 
ATRIUM Defined .................................202 ATRIUM FIRE PROTECTION ....... 907.2.14, 914.4 ATTIC 
Defined .................................202 


ATTIC STORAGE ....................... 315.2.4 

AUDIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION 
APPLIANCE ........................ 907.5.2.1 
Defined .................................202 


AUTOMATED RACK STORAGE Defined .................................202 Emergency shutdown ................... 3209.4 
AUTOMATIC Defined .................................202 AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM (see FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS, ALTERNATIVE) AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM Defined .................................202 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM ...............2108.2, 2703.10, 2804.3, 3206.4, 3209.2, 3314, 6304.1.4 
Aerosol warehouses ...................51 04.4.1 
Alarms......................903.4.2, 2703.10.5 
Basements .......................903.2.11.1.3 
Defined .................................202 
Dip-tank operations ..................... 2405.4 
Gas rooms ........................ 5003.8.4.1 
Group A ..............................903.2.1 
Group B ..............................903.2.2 
Group E ..............................903.2.3 
Group F-1 ............................903.2.4 
Group H .............................903.2.5 
Group I ..............................903.2.6 
Group M .............................903.2. 7 
Group R .............................903.2.8 
Group S-1 ............................903.2.9 
Group S-2 ...........................903.2.1 0 
High-piled storage .................... 903.2.7.1 
Hose threads ..........................903.3.6 
Installation requirements .................. 903.3 
Limited area .......................903.3.5.1.1 
Monitoring ............................. 903.4 
NFPA 13 sprinkler systems ............. 903.3.1.1 
NFPA 13D sprinkler systems ........... 903.3.1.3 
NFPA 13R sprinkler systems ........... 903.3.1.2 
Pyroxylin plastics ............. 903.2.4.3, 903.6.1 
Repair garages ...................... 903.2.9.1 
Riser rooms ...........................901.4.6 
Rubbish and linen chutes ............. 903.2.11 .2 
Spray rooms .......................... 2404.4 
Water supplies ........................903.3.5 
Windowless stories .................. 903.2.11.1 
Woodworking operations .............. 903.2.4.1 
Zones ...............................907.6.3 


AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS Defined .................................202 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Early Suppression Fast Response (ESFR) ............. 910.1, 91 0.3.5, Table 3206.2, Table 3208.3, 5104.3 
Obstructions to discharge ........ 315.2.1, 903.3.3 Quick response (QR) ................... 903.3.2, Table 5704.3.6.3(5) 
Residential ........................... 903.3.2 AUTOMOBILE UNDERCOATING (see SPRAY FINISHING) AUTOMOTIVE MOTOR FUEL­DISPENSING FACILITY ............. Chapter 23 Defined ................................ 202 AVERAGE AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL ... 907.5.2.1.1 Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 AVIATION FACILITIES ............... Chapter 20 (see also AIRCRAFT-RELATED OCCUPANCIES, FIRE PROTECTION FOR) Cleaning parts .........................2004.3 Combustible storage ....................2003.6 Dispensing hoses and nozzles .......... 2006.3.3 Dispensing of flammable and combustible liquids ....................2003.5 Fire protection ..........................914.8 Fueling and defueling .................... 2006 Portable fire extinguishers ................. 2005 Radar equipment. .....................2006.21 AWNING Defined ................................ 202 
8 

BACKFLOW PREVENTION .......... 903.3.5, 912.5 BALCONIES ............ 308.3.1, 903.3.1.2.1, 1 019 BALCONY, EXTERIOR Defined ................................ 202 BARRICADE Artificial defined (for explosives) ............. 202 Defined (for explosives) .................... 202 Fire apparatus access road ......... 503.5, 503.5.1 Natural defined (for explosives) .............. 202 Placement at fire scene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 04.11.1 BARRICADED (explosives) Defined ................................ 202 BASEMENT Defined ................................ 202 BATTERY CHARGING (see POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS) BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY LEAD-ACID Defined ................................ 202 BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY STORAGE .................. 608 Defined ................................ 202 
Permit. .............................. 105.7.2 Room design ...........................608.4 Signs .................................608.7 Ventilation .............................608.6 BATTERY TYPES-Defined Lithium-ion .............................. 202 Lithium metal polymer ..................... 202 Nickel cadmium .......................... 202 Nonrecombinant. ......................... 202 Recombinant ............................ 202 Stationary storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Valve-regulated lead acid ................... 202 Vented (flooded) lead acid .................. 202 BIN BOX ...............................3208.1 Defined ................................. 202 BLAST AREA Defined................................. 202 BLAST SITE Defined................................. 202 BLASTER Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 BLASTING AGENT (see also EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS) Defined................................. 202 BLEACHERS ...................1 028.1, 1 028.1.1 Defined................................. 202 Occupant load .........................1 004.4 BOARDING HOUSE (Occupancy Group R) Defined................................. 202 BOILING POINT Defined................................. 202 BOND For explosives ......................5601.2.4.1 For fireworks display .................5601.2.4.2 BONDING AND GROUNDING .... 21 04.2.4, 2106.3.4 Aircraft fueling ..............2006.3.7.1, 2006.5.2 CNG motor fuel-dispensing facilities ........................ 2308.8.1.2.4 Cryogenic fluids ...................... 5503.7.2 Organic coating ........................2904.3 Piping, valves and fittings ..............5706.4.7.6 Powdered coating .................... 2406.6.4 Roll-coating operations .................2405.11 Underground tanks ...................5706.6.1 .8 Vessels............................. 5705.3.2 BONFIRES ............................ 307.4.1 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Permit. ........................105.6.30, 307.2 BREATHING APPARATUS .............. 2603.3.2 BRIDGES (see ACCESS ROADS, FIRE APPARATUS) 
INDEX 

BRITISH THERMAL UNIT (BTU) Defined .................................202 BUILDING Defined .................................202 Unsafe ................................. 110 Vacant (see Vacant premises) BUILDING INFORMATION CARD .......508.1.5(13) BUILDING OFFICIAL ............ 408.11.1.2, 51 0.1 Defined .................................202 BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS .... Chapter 6 BULK OXYGEN SYSTEM .............. Chapter 63 Defined .................................202 BULK PLANT OR TERMINAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706.4 Defined .................................202 BULK TRANSFER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706.5 Defined .................................202 BULLET RESISTANT Defined ................................. 202 BURNING (see OPEN BURNING) BUTANE (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) BUTYLENE (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) 
c 

CABINETS Fire equipment ............ 905.7, 906.8, 2005.7.1 Flammable liquid ..................... 5704.3.2 Hazardous material ................... 5003.8.7 Ozone .............................. 6005.3.1 CABINETS, GAS. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2703.3.5, 2703.1 0.2, 2703.13.1.3, 5003.8.6, 5306.2.3, 6004.1 .2, 6406.2.2, 6406.4.1 
CANDLES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 05.6.32, 308, 806.4 CANOPY Defined .................................202 CAPTIONS, EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM .......... 907.5.2.2.4 CARBON DIOXIDE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM Commercial cooking systems. . . . . . . . . . . . . 904.11 Defined .................................202 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTION SYSTEMS ........... 908.7, 908.7.1 CARE, 24-HOUR (Occupancy Group I) Defined .................................202 CARE SUITE Defined .................................202 CARNIVALS .................... 105.6.4, 3103.3 CARTON Combustible .......................... 5106.5 Defined .................................202 
CEILING LIMIT Defined .................................202 CELLULOSE NITRATE MOTION PICTURE FILM ...........................306 CELLULOSE NITRATE PLASTICS [see PYROXYLIN (CELLULOSE NITRATE) PLASTICS] CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PERSONNEL Automatic fire-extinguishing systems .......904.1.1 Portable fire extinguishers ...............906.2.1 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY ................ 102.3 Defined .................................202 CHANGE OF USE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 02.3 CHEMICAL Defined .................................202 CHEMICAL NAME Defined .................................202 CHIMNEY..........................603.2, 603.6 Defined .................................202 Factory-built ..........................603.6.4 Masonry .............................603.6.1 Metal ................................603.6.2 CHRISTMAS TREE (see DECORATIVE VEGETATION) CHUTES, RUBBISH AND LINEN ........ 903.2.11.2 CLASSIFICATION Aerosols ...............................51 03 Commodity .............................3203 Dry cleaning plants and systems .......... 2103.2 Dry cleaning solvent or liquid ......... 202, 2103.1 Flammable and combustible liquids ...........202 Floor finish materials ....................804.3.1 Hazardous materials .................... 5001.2 Occupancy ..............................202 Refrigerant ............................ 606.3 CLEAN AGENT Defined .................................202 CLEANING Cooking equipment. ....................609.3.3 Flammable liquids used for ............... 2004.3 Powder coating .......................2406.5.1 Repair garages .......................2311.2.1 Tanks ..............................5706.7.2 Tire rebuilding buffing areas .............. 3403.3 CLEARANCE Storage to ceiling or sprinklers .......... 315.2.1, 903.3.3, 5704.3.5.3 CLINIC, OUTPATIENT (Occupancy Group B) Defined .................................202 CLOSED CONTAINER ..................5505.5.2 Defined .................................202 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
CLOSED SYSTEM .................... 5705.3.7.6 Defined ................................ 202 CNG MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES ............................ 2308 COLD DECK ............................2806.2 Defined ................................ 202 COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS, GROUP R-2 ...... 404.2, Table 405.2, 408.3, 907.2.9.3 
COMBUSTIBLE DUST Defined ................................ 202 COMBUSTIBLE DUST -PRODUCING OPERATIONS ..................... Chapter 22 Permit .............................. 105.6.6 COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS .............. Chapter 52 Defined ................................ 202 General precautions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5203 Permit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 05.6. 7 Portable fire extinguishers ................ 5203.6 COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID ....................2306, 3104.17, Chapter 57 
Classified locations ................... 5703.1 .2 Defined ................................ 202 Dispensing, use, mixing and handling .................... 5705.3, 5705.3.8 Heated ...............................5701.5 Indoor storage ....................... 5704.3.3 Mixtures ..............................5701.5 Outdoor storage ........................5704.4 Permit ...................... 105.6.16, 105.7.8 Portable fire extinguisher ............... 5706.2.7 Special operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706 Tank storage ..........................5704.2 Waste control ........................ 5706.3.3 Wholesale and resale use .............. 5704.3.6 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL STORAGE ........................315, 2003.6 COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATERIAL ..... 304,2505 Containers .............................304.3 Storage ...............................304.2 COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 COMMERCIAL KITCHEN COOKING OIL STORAGE TANK SYSTEMS ............ 610 COMMERCIAL KITCHEN HOODS ............ 609 COMMODITY Classifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3203 Defined ................................ 202 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 014.3, 1028.8, Table 1104.17.2 
Defined ................................ 202 

COMPATIBILITY (Hazardous materials) (see INCOMPATIBLE MATERIALS) COMPRESSED GAS ................. Chapter 53 Containers, cylinders, tanks ...............5303.1 Defined................................. 202 Medical gas ............................ 5306 Requirements........................... 5303 Storage................................ 5304 Use and handling ........................ 5305 Wiring ................................5303.6 COMPRESSED GAS CONTAINER Defined................................. 202 COMPRESSED GAS SYSTEM Defined................................. 202 Motor fuel-dispensing facilities .............. 2308 COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (CNG) ......5301.1 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS ...............102.9 CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY (Occupancy Group I) Defined................................. 202 CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY (Occupancy Group R) Defined................................. 202 CONSTANTLY ATTENDED LOCATION .......... 903.4.1, 907.2.1.1, 907.2.6, 907.2.7.1, 907.2.10.1, 907.2.12.1, 907.2.13, 907.2.18.2, 907.3, 907.3.1' 907.5, 907.5.1' 913.4, 5704.2.8.11 
Defined................................. 202 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION FIRE SAFETY ..................... Chapter 33 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS .............1 05.4 Defined................................. 202 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT, MOTORIZED (see MOTORIZED CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT) CONTAINER Defined................................. 202 CONTAINER AND PORTABLE TANK STORAGE ..................... 5704.3, Table 5704.3.6.3(4), 
5704.4, Table 5704.4.2 

CONTAINMENT PALLETS Flammable and combustible liquids ....... 5704.4.3 Hazardous materials .................. 5004.2.3 CONTAINMENT SYSTEM Defined................................. 202 CONTAINMENT VESSEL Defined................................. 202 CONTINUOUS GAS DETECTION SYSTEM (see GAS DETECTION SYSTEM, CONTINUOUS) CONTROL AREAS ..................... 5003.8.3 Defined................................. 202 
COOKING Appliances, commercial, defined ............. 202 Commercial, automatic sprinkler systems .................. 903.2.11.5 Commercial, fire-extinguishing systems ..... 904.11 Commercial, hoods ........................ 609 Commercial, oil storage tank systems ......... 610 Commercial, portable fire extinguishers .... 904.11.5 Devices, open-flame ....................308.1.4 On balconies .......................... 308.1.4 CORRIDOR .............................. 1 018 Defined .................................202 CORROSION PROTECTION Cryogenic fluid containers . . . . . . . . . . . . 5503.1.3.2 Cryogenic fluid piping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5505.1.2.5 General .............................5703.6.5 Tanks and piping ........... 5704.2.7.9, 5706.7.1 CORROSIVE Defined .................................202 CORROSIVE MATERIALS ............. Chapter 54 Indoor storage ........................ 5404.1 Indoor use ............................ 5405.1 Outdoor storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5404.2 Outdoor use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5405.2 Requirements ...........................5403 COTTON, BALED ..........Table 5003.1.1 (1 ), 5205 Defined .................................202 COTTON, DENSELY PACKED BALED Defined .................................202 COTTON, SEED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5203.4 Defined .................................202 COURT Defined .................................202 COURT, EGRESS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027.4 Defined .................................202 COVERED MALL BUILDING Automatic sprinkler system ............... 914.2.1 Defined .................................202 Emergency planning. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408.11 Emergency voice/alarm communication system ........ 907.2.20, 914.2.3 Permit ............................... 105.6.9 Standby power systems ................ 604.2.14 Standpipe system ............... 905.3.3, 914.2.2 CRANKCASE OIL (see WASTE OIL) CROP-RIPENING AND COLORING PROCESSES (see FRUIT AND CROP RIPENING) CROWD MANAGERS ............ 403.3, 3104.20.2 CRYOGENIC CONTAINER Defined .................................202 Handling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5505.5 
INDEX 

Marking .............................. 5503.4 
Security.............................. 5503.5 
CRYOGENIC FLUIDS ................. Chapter 55 
Containers............................ 5503.1 
Defined .................................202 
Filling................................ 5505.4 
Flammable .............................5806 
Indoor storage ......................... 5504.2 
Indoor use ............................ 5505.2 
Outdoor storage ....................... 5504.3 
Outdoor use .......................... 5505.3 
Permit ..............................1 05.6.1 0 
Requirements ...........................5503 
Underground storage tanks ........5504.4, 5504.5 
CRYOGENIC VESSEL 
Defined .................................202 
CUSTODIAL CARE (Occupancy Group I) 
Defined .................................202 
CYLINDER 
Defined .................................202 

D 

DAMPER Defined .................................202 DANGER, IMMINENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 0.2 DAY BOX (Magazine, Type 3) ................202 Defined .................................202 DEAD END ............................ 1018.4 DECK Defined .................................202 DECORATIONS.............................805 Exit obstruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 030.5 DECORATIVE MATERIALS ..................807 Defined .................................202 DECORATIVE VEGETATION .................806 DEFLAGRATION Defined .................................202 DELAYED EGRESS LOCKS .... 907.4.2, 1008.1.9.7 DELUGE SYSTEM Defined .................................202 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS FIRE SAFETY ...................... Chapter 33 DESIGN PRESSURE Defined .................................202 DETACHED BUILDING Defined .................................202 Group H occupancies ..................5003.8.2 Storage ........6204.1.1, 6304.1.1, Table 6304.1.2 DETEARING Defined .................................202 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
DETECTOR, HEAT Defined ................................ 202 DETONATING CORD Defined ................................ 202 DETONATION Defined ................................ 202 DETONATOR Defined ................................ 202 DETOXIFICATION FACILITY (Group 1-2) Defined ................................ 202 DIP TANK ............................... 2405 
Defined ................................ 202 DIPPING OPERATIONS .................... 2405 DISCHARGE, EXIT (see EXIT DISCHARGE) DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL 
(see RELEASE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL) DISCHARGE SITE Defined ................................ 202 
DISPENSING 
Aircraft fueling .......................... 2006 
Defined ................................ 202 
Fire extinguishers ......................2305.5 
Location ..............................2303.1 
Motor fuel-dispensing operations ............ 2304 
Requirements ..................... 2305, 5005 

DISPENSING DEVICE, OVERHEAD-TYPE Defined ................................ 202 DISPLAY SITE (Fireworks) Defined ................................ 202 
DISPLAYS Aerosol products ........................ 51 06 Cellulose nitrate 
(pyroxylin) plastic ............... 314.3, 6503.1 
Fireworks .............................. 5608 
Group M .............................5003.11 
Indoor. ................................. 314 
Motor vehicles .................. 314.4, 3104.18 
Retail ...................5001.4, 5106,5601.2.2 
Storage ........................... 5003.11.3 

DOOR, BALANCED .................. 1008.1.10.2 

Defined ................................ 202 DOORS, EXIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 008 DORMITORIES 
(see OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION, Residential Group R and COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS, Group R-2) 
DRAFT CURTAIN Construction, design and installation..................... 910.3, 3206.2 
Defined................................. 202 

DRAFTSTOP Defined................................. 202 Maintenance.......................... 703.1.1 
DRAINAGE CONTROL ...........2903.10, 2905.3, 
5004.2.2.6, 5705.3.8.1 ' 
5706.2.6, 5706.4.9 

DRAINS Dip-tank bottom ...................... 2405.3.2 Exhaust duct sprinkler system ....... 2703.1 0.4.4.3 HPM liquids ........................2705.2.2.2 Magazines .......................... 5604.6.1 Outdoor cryogenic fluid storage 
containers ........................5504.3.1.3 

Portable containers ..................5204.3.2.2 DRAPERIES ...................... 807.1, 1030.5 DRILLING, WELL ........................5706.3 DRY-CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT 
Defined................................. 202 

DRY CLEANING ..................... Chapter 21 
Classifications .........................21 03.1 
Defined................................. 202 
Fire protection .......................... 2108 
Requirements, general. ................... 2104 
Requirements, operating ............ , ..... 2105 
Solvent or liquid classifications .............. 202 
Spotting and pretreating ................... 2106 
Systems ............................... 2107 

DRY CLEANING PLANT Defined................................. 202 DRY CLEANING ROOM Defined................................. 202 DRY CLEANING SYSTEM 
Defined................................. 202 DRYING APPARATUS .................2404.6.1.2 DRYING OVENS (see INDUSTRIAL OVENS) DRYING ROOMS ........................914.10 DUCT SMOKE DETECTORS .............. 907.3.1 DUMPSTERS ............................304.3 DUST COLLECTION .............5203.5, 5906.5.3 DUST EXPLOSION HAZARDS . . . . . . . . . Chapter 22 
Explosion venting ..................... 2803.2.1 DWELLING Defined................................. 202 DWELLING UNIT Defined................................. 202 
E 

EARLY SUPPRESSION FAST-RESPONSE SPRINKLER (ESFR) (see AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS) 
EGRESS (see MEANS OF EGRESS) 
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT .................. 605 
Aviation facilities ...................... 2006.14 
Dust-producing machines ............... 5906.5.5 
Signs......................... 605.3.1, 608.7.1 
Workstations in HPM facilities ........... 2703.7.2 

ELECTROSTATIC APPARATUS ............. 2407 ELECTROSTATIC FLUIDIZED BED Defined .................................202 
ELEVATOR GROUP Defined .................................202 Emergency voice/alarm 
communication system in ............ 907.5.2.2 ELEVATOR KEYS, FIRE SERVICE (see KEYS, FIRE SERVICE ELEVATOR) 
ELEVATOR KEYS, NONST ANDARDIZED FIRE SERVICE Key boxes for ......................... 506.1.2 
ELEVATOR RECALL ....................... 607 

EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEM ................. 908, 5004.9, 5005.4.4 Defined .................................202 
EMERGENCY CONTROL STATION ........ 2703.1 
Defined .................................202 

EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENING ................. 1029 Defined .................................202 
EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL ........... 405 
Defined .................................202 
Frequency............................408.5.4 

EMERGENCY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT Inspection and testing .................... 604.5 EMERGENCY PLANNING 
AND PREPAREDNESS ............... Chapter 4 
EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEMS ............. 604 
EMERGENCY RELIEF VENTING ........ 2306.6.2.5, 

5704.2.7.4 

EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE ...................... 510 In existing buildings .................... 1103.2 Permit ............................... 105.7.5 EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE ......... 2307.5.1, 5003.2.2.1' 5503.4.6, 5505.3.2, 5803.1.3, 6303.1.2, 6403.1.1 
Defined .................................202 


EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE, AUTOMATIC ................ 2305.2.2, 2306.7.4 Defined .................................202 
INDEX 

EMERGENCY SHUTOFF VALVE, MANUAL Defined .................................202 
EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM 
COMMUNICATIONS ................. 907.5.2.2 
Atriums .............................907.2.14 
Captions ..........................907.5.2.2.4 
Covered mall buildings .................907.2.20 
Deep underground buildings .............907.2.19 
Defined .................................202 
Group A. ........................... 907.2.1.1 
High-rise building .....................907.2.13 
Special amusement buildings .......... 907.2.12.3 

EMPLOYEE TRAINING ......................406 ENTRY, RIGHT OF ....................... 104.3 EQUIPMENT, FUELED ......................312 EQUIPMENT PLATFORM 
Defined .................................202 


Guards required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 013.2 ESCAPE OPENINGS ......................1 029 ESFR SPRINKLERS 
(see AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS) 

ETHYLENE Gas ...................................2503 Generators .............................2506 
EVACUATION ........... 11 0.2, 1703.3.4, 1704.3.5 
EVACUATION DIAGRAMS .........408.8.1, 408.9.2 
EVACUATION DRILLS ......................405 
Frequency ...................405.2, Table 405.2 
Notification ............................ 405.6 
Recall and reentry ....................... 405.9 

EVACUATION PLANS ......................404 EXCESS FLOW CONTROL Defined .................................202 EXCESS FLOW VALVE Defined .................................202 EXHAUSTED ENCLOSURE ..............5003.8.5 Defined .................................202 EXHIBIT GALLERY 
Occupancy load .................Table 1004.1.2 EXHIBITION HALLS (Occupancy Group A-3) ... 202 EXISTING 
Defined .................................202 
EXISTING BUILDINGS ................ Chapter 11 
EXIT ....................................1020 
Defined .................................202 
Enclosure ..............................1022 
Horizontal ..............................1 025 
Number required .........................1021 
Passageways ...........................1023 
EXIT ACCESS ............................1014 
Defined .................................202 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
EXIT ACCESS RAMP Defined ................................ 202 EXIT ACCESS STAIRWAY 
Defined ................................ 202 EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORS . . . . . . 1 008, 1 015 EXIT DISCHARGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 027 
Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 EXIT DISCHARGE, LEVEL OF 
Defined ................................ 202 
EXIT ENCLOSURE ........................ 1022 
Defined ................................ 202 
EXIT, HORIZONTAL ....................... 1025 
Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 
EXIT PASSAGEWAY ...................... 1023 
Defined ................................ 202 

EXPANDED PLASTIC Defined ................................ 202 EXPANDED VINYL WALL OR CEILING COVERINGS ...................803.6 EXPLOSION 
Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 
EXPLOSION CONTROL ....... 911, 2905.4, 5004.6, 
5005.2.1.2, 5005.2.2.3, 5704.2.5, 
5705.3.7 .5.2, 5705.3.7 .6.2, 5804.1 .1' 
6204.1.1 0, 6304.1.3, 6604.1.2, 6704.1.6 

EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL .............. Chapter 56 
Defined ................................ 202 
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS ....... Chapter 56 

Defined ................................ 202 EXTENSION CORDS ......................605.5 EXTERIOR ASSISTED RESCUE AREAS. . . . 1007.7 EXTERIOR WALL 
Defined ................................ 202 EXTINGUISHERS (see FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, PORTABLE) 
EXTRA-HIGH-RACK COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE Approval..............................3208.5 Defined ................................ 202 Fire protection ....................... 3208.5.1 
F 

FABRICATION AREA ....................2705.2 
Construction......................... 2703.3.1 
Defined ................................ 202 
Electrical wiring and equipment .......... 2703.7.1 
Existing ..............................2701.4 
Gas detection ......................2703.13.1.1 
Storage ..............................2704.2 

FACILITY Defined ................................ 202 
FAIL-SAFE ................ 5003.2.2.1, 6004.2.2.3 

Defined................................. 202 FAIRS ................................ 105.6.4 FALLOUT AREA 
Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FALSE ALARM 
Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FEES .................................... 113 FILL PIPE CONNECTIONS ........... 5704.2.9.5.2 FILM, CELLULOSE NITRATE 
MOTION PICTURE ....................... 306 
Projection rooms ........................306.1 
Storage................................306.2 

FINES (in woodworking operations) (see also VIOLATION PENALTIES) Defined (in woodworking operations) .......... 202 Storage and processing (in woodworking operations) .............. 2808 FINISHED PRODUCTS ...................2909.6 FIRE ALARM Defined................................. 202 Reporting ....................... 401.3.2, 3309 FIRE ALARM BOX (see MANUAL FIRE ALARM BOX) FIRE ALARM CONTROL UNIT Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FIRE ALARM SIGNAL Defined................................. 202 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM Annunciation ......................... 907.1.1 Defined................................. 202 Existing buildings ................. 907.9, 1103.6 Maintenance............................907.8 Monitoring ........................... 907.6.5 Notification appliances ....................907.5 Out of service ...........................901.7 Permit. .............................. 1 05.7 .6 Power supply ......................... 907.6.2 Presignal feature ...................... 907.5.1 Telephone dialing devices ..............907.6.5.1 Testing ................................907.8 Where required, existing buildings ..........1103.6 Where required, new buildings ..............907.2 Zones ............................... 907.6.3 FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD ........... 503 Defined................................. 202 Gates and barricades ............... 503.5, 503.6 Obstructions............................503.4 FIRE AREA ............................ 901.4.3 Defined................................. 202 FIRE BARRIER Defined................................. 202 
INDEX 

Maintenance .......................... 703.1.3 FIRE CHIEF Authority at fires and other emergencies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104.11 Defined .................................202 FIRE CODE OFFICIAL 
Defined .................................202 
FIRE COMMAND CENTER ................... 508 
Defined .................................202 

FIRE DAMPER Defined .................................202 FIRE. DEPARTMENT 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEM .......... 907.2.13.2 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS ... 903.3.7, 912 FIRE DEPARTMENT MASTER KEY 
Defined .................................202 FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTIFICATION 
[see NOTIFICATION (of fire department)] FIRE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS ... 104.11, 401.4 FIRE DETECTOR, AUTOMATIC 
Defined .................................202 FIRE DOOR Defined .................................202 FIRE DOOR ASSEMBLY Defined .................................202 FIRE DRILL 
(see EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL) FIRE EQUIPMENT, TAMPERING WITH ....... 901.8 FIRE ESCAPE STAIRS .................. 1104.16 FIRE EXIT HARDWARE ................ 1008.1.10 
Defined .................................202 


FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, PORTABLE ........... 906 Asphalt kettles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303.5 Aviation facilities .........................2005 Buildings under construction or demolition ..... 3315 Commercial cooking equipment .......... 904.11.5 Dry cleaning plants ..................... 2108.4 Flammable finishes ................... 2404.4.1, 
2405.4.2, 2406.4.2 
Lumber yards ................... 2804.2, 2808.8 


FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS, ALTERNATIVE ..........................904 Commercial cooking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904.11 Fire alarm system interconnection ... 904.3.5, 907.6 Flammable and combustible 
liquids ............... 5704.3.7.5.1, 5704.3.8.4 Flammable finishing ............ 2404.4, 2405.4.1, 2406.4, 2407.4 
Hazardous materials ................... 5005.1.8 Monitoring............................ 904.3.5 Permit. .............................. 105.7.1 Required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904.2 

FIRE FIGHTERS Hazards to ...............................316 Pitfalls ................................ 316.3 Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 01.3 
FIRE FLOW REQUIREMENTS .............. 507.3 

FIRE HYDRANT 
Obstruction ...........................507.5.4 
Permit .............. 1 05.6.15, 1 05.6.35, 1 05.7.12 
Standpipe system .................... 507.5.1.1 
Tampering ............................. 901.8 
Testing ........................ 507.5.2, 901.5 

FIRE INVESTIGATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 04.1 0 FIRE LANE Defined .................................202 
FIRE PARTITION Defined .................................202 Maintenance ..........................703.1.3 
FIRE POINT 
Defined .................................202 FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT .............509 FIRE PROTECTION RATING 
Defined .................................202 


FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM ............ Chapter 9 
Defined .................................202 
Nonrequired ..........................901.4.2 
Out of service .......................... 901.7 
Owner's responsibility during 

construction or demolition ................3308 


Permit ......... 105.7.1, 105.7.4, 105.7.5, 105.7.12 FIRE PUMP ROOMS .....................901.4.6 FIRE PUMPS .......................105.7.7, 913 FIRE RECORDS ........................1 04.6.3 FIRE, RECREATIONAL (see RECREATIONAL FIRE) FIRE, REPORTING OF UNWANTED .... 401.3, 3309 FIRE RESISTANCE 
Defined .................................202 FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION ... 703 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING 
Defined .................................202 FIRE-RESISTANT JOINT SYSTEM 
Defined .................................202 FIRE-RETARDANT COATINGS ............. 803.4 FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION 
AND DEMOLITION.................. Chapter 33 
FIRE SAFETY FUNCTIONS ............... 907.11 
Defined .................................202 

FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE Defined .................................202 FIRE SERVICE ELEVATOR KEYS (see KEYS, FIRE SERVICE ELEVATOR) FIRE SERVICE FEATURES ............. Chapter 5 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
FIRE, UNWANTED (see UNWANTED FIRE) 
FIRE WALL Defined ................................ 202 Maintenance ......................... 703.1.3 
FIRE WATCH (see also STANDBY PERSONNEL) 
Construction/demolition sites ..............3304.5 
Defined ................................ 202 
Fire protection impairments ................901.7 
Hot work ..............................3504.2 

FIREBLOCKING Defined ................................ 202 Maintenance ......................... 703.1.3 
AREPLACES,PORTABLEOUTDOOR (see PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES) FIREWORKS (see EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS) Defined ................................ 202 Prohibited........................... 5601.1.3 Retail display and sale ...................5609.1 FIREWORKS DISPLAY Damage from .......................5601.2.4.2 Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FIXED BASE OPERATOR Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FIXED SEATING .........................1004.4 Defined ................................ 202 Occupant load factor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 004.1.2 FLAME RETARDANT (see also FIRE-RETARDANT COATINGS) Tents, air-supported, air-inflated and tensioned membrane structures ..........31 04.2 FLAME SPREAD Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 FLAME SPREAD INDEX Defined ................................ 202 FLAMING FOODS AND BEVERAGES ........ 308.6 FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUID Defined ................................ 202 FLAMMABLE FINISHES ......... 914.7, Chapter 24 Defined ................................ 202 Dipping operations ....................... 2405 Electrostatic apparatus ................... 2407 Floor surfacing .......................... 241 0 Powder coating ......................... 2406 Protection of operations ................... 2403 Spray finishing .......................... 2404 Ventilation .....................2404.7, 2405.7, 2406.7, 2407.7, 2409.6, 2410.5 
FLAMMABLE GAS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chapter 58 Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Nonodorized ........................ 2311.7.2 Requirements .......................... 5803 
Storage..........................3306.1, 5804 Use.............................3306.1, 5805 FLAMMABLE LIQUEFIED GAS Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS ............... Chapter 57 Buildings under construction or demolition .... 3305 Classified locations ................... 5703.1.1 Defined................................. 202 Dispensing, use, mixing and 
handling ....................5705.3, 5705.3.8 In construction and demolition operations ..... 3305 Indoor storage ....................... 5704.3.3 Labeling and signage ....................5703.5 Motor fuel .............................. 2306 Outdoor storage ........................5704.4 Permit. ...................... 1 05.6.16, 1 05.7 .8 Portable fire extinguisher ............... 5706.2.7 Special operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706 Tank storage ..........................5704.2 Tents, air-supported, air-inflated and 
tensioned membrane structures .........3104.17 
Waste control ........................ 5706.3.3 
Wholesale and resale use .............. 5704.3.6 

FLAMMABLE MATERIAL Defined................................. 202 
FLAMMABLE SOLID ................. Chapter 59 
Defined................................. 202 
Indoor storage .........................5904.1 
Magnesium............................. 5906 
Outdoor storage ......................... 5906 
Requirements........................... 5903 
Use................................... 5905 

FLAMMABLE VAPOR AREA 
Alarms ............................2404.8.1.1 
Defined................................. 202 
Electrical equipment. .................. 2403.2.1 
Ignition sources ........................2403.2 
Ventilation ..................... 2404.7, 2405.7 
Warning signs ....................... 2403.2.7 

FLAMMABLEVAPORSORFUMES Defined................................. 202 FLASH POINT Defined................................. 202 
FLEET VEHICLE MOTOR FUEL­DISPENSING FACILITY Defined................................. 202 Tanks .............................2306.2.4.2 
FLEXIBLE JOINTS .......... 2306.7.9.1.4, 5703.6.9 

FLIGHT (stairs) Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 
FLOOR AREA, GROSS Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 
INDEX 

FLOOR AREA, NET 
Defined .................................202 FLOOR CONSTRUCTION ..... 2309.5.1.1, 5004.2.1, 5004.12, 6003.1.4.1' 6304.1.5 
FLOOR COVERING (interior finish) . . . . . . . . . 804.3 FLOOR IDENTIFICATION SIGNS .......... 1022.8, 1030.9, 1104.23 
FLOOR OPENINGS AND SHAFTS . . . . . 704, 11 03.4 FLUE SPACES ......................... 3208.3 Defined .................................202 FLUIDIZED BED Defined ................................. 202 FOAM-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS .......... 904.7 
Defined .................................202 FOAM PLASTICS ..... 803.7, 804.2, 807.4.2.1, 808.3 FOGGING, INSECTICIDAL 
(see FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING) FOLDING AND TELESCOPIC SEATING Defined ................................. 202 
FOSTER CARE FACILITIES (Occupancy Group I) Defined .................................202 
FRUIT AND CROP RIPENING .......... Chapter 25 Ethylene gas ............................2503 Heating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2504.5 Permit .............................. 105.6.18 Sources of ignition .......................2504 Warning signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2507 
FUEL-FIRED APPLIANCES .................. 603 Chimneys ........................ 603.2, 603.6 Heating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603.5 Installation ............................ 603.1 
FUEL LIMIT SWITCH Defined .................................202 
FUEL OIL Grade ...............................603.1.4 Storage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603.3 
FUMIGANT Defined .................................202 
FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING ............ Chapter 26 Breathing apparatus ................... 2603.3.2 Clean up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2603.6 Defined ................................. 202 Fire safety requirements ................... 2603 Notification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2603.3 Permit .............................. 1 05.6.19 Sealing of buildings .................... 2603.5 Warning signs ........................ 2603.3.1 Watch personnel ...................... 2603.3.3 
FURNACE CLASS A, B, C, D 
Defined .................................202 
FURNISHINGS ..................... 808, 1030.6 
FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERED ........ 805, 903.2.4, 

903.2.7, 903.2.9 

FUSIBLE LINKS ..................703.2, 904.5.2, 904.6.2, 904.11.6.3 
G 

GARAGE (see REPAIR GARAGE) 
GARAGING (see PARKING AND GARAGING) 
GAS CABINET .............. 3003.7.10, 3006.2.3, 

5003.8.6, 6004.1.2 

Defined .................................202 GAS CONTAINER PROTECTION .........3003.5.2 GAS DETECTION SYSTEM, CONTINUOUS 
Defined .................................202 
Emergency alarm system ...................908 
HPM gases .......................... 2703.13 
Hydrogen motor fuel .................... 2307.2 
Ozone gas ...........................6005.3.2 
GAS METERS ........................... 603.9 

GAS-OR LIQUID-FUELED VEHICLES .....................314.4, 2404.18 Permit ..............................1 05.6.26 
GAS ROOM ................. 5003.8.4, 6004.2.2.6 Defined .................................202 GATES 
Means of egress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 008.2 GATES, FIRE APPARATUS ROAD .....503.5, 503.6 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ............ Chapter 3 GENERATORS 
Acetylene ..............................2608 
Ethylene ...............................1606 
Ozone Gas .............................6005 
Portable.............................. 2608.2 
Stationary ............................604. 1.1 

GLASS-FIBER-REINFORCED PLASTICS Manufacturing ...........................2409 Storage .............................. 2409.4 Ventilation ............................ 2409.6 
GRADE FLOOR OPENING Defined .................................202 GRADE PLANE 
Defined .................................202 
GRANDSTAND ................. 1028.1, 1028.1.1 
Defined .................................202 

GROUP HOME (Occupancy Group R-4) Defined .................................202 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
GUARD .......................... 1013, 1028.14 Defined ................................ 202 GYPSUM BOARD Defined ................................ 202 
H 

HABITABLE SPACE Defined ................................ 202 HALOGENATED EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM Defined ................................ 202 HAND RUB, ALCOHOL-BASED (see ALCOHOL-BASED HAND RUB) HANDLING 
Defined ................................ 202 HANDRAIL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 012 Defined ................................ 202 
HANGARS, AIRCRAFT (see AIRCRAFT-RELATED OCCUPANCIES, FIRE 
PROTECTION FOR) HANGERS, FIRE EXTINGUISHER ........... 906.7 HARDENING TANKS .....................2405.9 HARDWARE, EXIT DOOR ............... 1008.1.9 HARDWARE, PANIC .................. 1008.1.10 HAY 
Combustible fiber .......................5203.4 Combustible waste .................... 304.1.1 Storage ....................... 3104.5, 5203.4 HAZARD COMMUNICATION ................. 407 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement. .... 407.5 Hazardous Materials Management Plan ...... 407.6 Training ...............................407.4 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS Defined ................................ 202 Fire-extinguishing systems ....... 5004.5, 5005.1.8 General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chapter 50 Identification signs ......................5003.5 Mixtures ............................ 5001.2.1 Outdoor control areas .................. 5003.12 Permit ...................... 105.6.20, 105.7.9 Personnel training .......................407.4 Power systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.2.1 0 Requirements .......................... 5003 Storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5004 Use, dispensing and handling .............. 5005 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY STATEMENT ........ 407.5, 5001.5.2 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN ........... 407.6, 5001.5.1 HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIAL (HPM) Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 HAZARDS TO FIRE FIGHTERS .............. 316 
HEALTH HAZARD ................... 5001.2.2.2, Table 5003.1.1 (2), Table 5003.1.1 (4) 
Defined................................. 202 HEAT VENTS (see SMOKE AND HEAT VENTS) HEATERS, PATIO (see PORTABLE OUTDOOR 
GAS-FIRED HEATING APPLIANCES) HEATERS, PORTABLE ELECTRIC SPACE ...605.10 HEATERS, PORTABLE UNVENTED ..........603.4 HEATING APPLIANCES ...................603.5 HEATING EQUIPMENT, TEMPORARY, 
DURING CONSTRUCTION ................ 3303 HEIGHT, BUILDING Defined................................. 202 
HELIPORT .............................. 2007 
Defined................................. 202 
Permit for rooftop heliport ............... 1 05.6.40 

HELISTOP .............................. 2007 
Defined ................................. 202 

HI-BOY Construction ............................303.7 Defined................................. 202 
HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE .......... Chapter 32 Aisles ................................3206.9 Automated storage ....................... 3209 Automatic sprinklers .............. 3206.4, 3209.2 Classifications, commodities ............... 3203 Defined................................. 202 Fire protection ...............3206, Table 3206.2 Housekeeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3205 HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREA Defined................................. 202 Designations ........................... 3204 Permit. ............................. 1 05.6.22 HIGH-RISE BUILDING Automatic sprinkler system .....903.2.11.3, 914.3.1 Automatic sprinkler system, floor control valves required ............ 903.4.3 Automatic sprinkler system, secondary water supply required .......903.3.5.2 Defined ................................. 202 Emergency evacuation drills ................ 405 Emergency responder radio coverage ...... 914.3.5 Emergency voice/alarm communications system ....... 907.2.13, 914.3.4 Fire alarm system .............. 907 .2.13, 914.3.2 Fire alarm system zoning ...............907.6.3.2 Fire command center ..............508.1, 914.3.6 Fire department communications system .............907 .2.13.2 Fire safety and evacuation plans ............. 404 Smokeproof exit stairway enclosures ....... 1022.10 
Standby power system . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.2.14.1 Standpipe system ......................905.3.1 HIGH-VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE Defined .................................202 Storage under ................... 315.4, 316.5.2 HIGHLY TOXIC ...................... Chapter 60 Compressed gases .......................6004 Defined .................................202 Indoor storage and use .................. 6003.1 Outdoor storage and use ...............6003.2.5 Solids and liquids ........................6003 HIGHWAY Defined .................................202 HISTORIC BUILDINGS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102.6 Defined .................................202 HOGGED MATERIALS ................2807, 2808 Defined .................................202 HOOD ...................................609 Defined .................................202 HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY Defined .................................202 HOSE........................2307.5.2, 2310.3.3 Aircraft fueling ...........................2006 Conductive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006.5.2.1 Connections for standpipes . . . . . . 905.3.4.1, 905.4, 905.5, 905.6 
Dispensing ..................2006.3.3, 2306.7.5 Protection ..................2006.7, 5706.6.1.11 System ...............904.8.4, 904.9.3, 904.10.3 Threads .............................903.3.6 HOSPITALS AND PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (Group 1-2) Defined .................................202 HOT WORK (see WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK) Defined .................................202 Permit ..............................1 05.6.23 HOT WORK AREA Defined .................................202 HOT WORK EQUIPMENT Defined .................................202 HOT WORK PERMITS Defined .................................202 HOT WORK PROGRAM Defined .................................202 HPM FACILITY (see SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITY) HPM FLAMMABLE LIQUID Defined .................................202 HPM ROOM Defined .................................202 
INDEX 

HYDRANTS (see FIRE HYDRANT) HYDROGEN .....................5501.1, 5801 .1 HYDROGEN MOTOR FUEL­DISPENSING FACILITIES .................2309 
IDENTIFICATION Alcohol-blended fuel-dispensing facilities ...........................2306.8.3 Building (address) ....................... 505.1 Exit discharge ..................1022.7, 1104.20 Floor level ..............1 022.8, 1 030.9, 11 04.2.2 Fire protection equipment. ......... 509.1, 905.7.1 Hazardous materials ............. 5003.5, 5503.4, 5703.5.4, 6005.4.3 
Hot work hazards ...................... 3503.6 Solar photovoltaic power systems ...... 605.11.1.2 Streets and roads ....................... 505.2 Tenant spaces in covered malls ..........408.11.2 Utilities ..............................509.1.1 Vacant premises .......................311.5.4 IGNITION SOURCES .......................305 IMMEDIATELY DANGEROUS TO LIFE AND HEALTH (IDLH) Defined .................................202 IMPACT PROTECTION, VEHICLE .............312 IMPAIRMENT COORDINATOR ............901.7.1 Defined .................................202 INCAPABLE OF SELF-PRESERVATION (Occupancy Group I) Defined .................................202 INCINERATORS ......................... 603.8 Room egress .......................... 1015.3 INCOMPATIBLE MATERIALS ........... 2704.3.3, 5003.9.8, 5003.1 0.3.6, 5003.11.3.7, 5004.2.2.2, 5004.4, 5005.1.1' 5303.7.1' 5303.7.11.1' 5704.2.6, 5704.3.3.2, 6404.1.4 
Defined .................................202 
INCOMPATIBLE SURFACES ........... 6306.3.6.2 
INDUSTRIAL OVENS .................Chapter 30 
Defined .................................202 
Fire protection ...........................3006 
Fuel piping .............................3004 
Interlocks...............................3005 
Location ...............................3003 
Operation and maintenance ................3007 
Permit ......................105.6.24, 105.7.10 
INERT GAS ............. 2311.8.2, 2501.1, 2906.4, 
5305.8, 5703.6.3.1' 5705.2.2 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Defined ................................ 202 INHABITED BUILDING Defined ................................ 202 INITIATING DEVICE Defined ................................ 202 INSECTICIDAL FOGGING (see FUMIGATION AND INSECTICIDAL FOGGING) INSPECTION ... 1 04.6.2, 1 05.2.2, 106, 107.2.1, 901.6 Emergency and standby power system .................. 604.3.1, 604.4 Fire department connections ...............912.6 Fire hydrant .......................... 507.5.2 Fireworks display ...............5608.5.3, 5608.9 Hose ................................3509.7 Magazines ............................5604.9 Masonry chimneys ..................... 603.6.1 Tents ................................3103.7 INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCIES Defined ................................ 202 INTERCONNECTION Fire-extinguishing systems with cooking appliances .................. 904.11.2 Smoke alarms ..............907.2.11.3, 1103.7.2 Standpipe risers ....................... 905.4.2 INTERIOR EXIT RAMP Defined ................................ 202 INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAY Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 INTERIOR FINISH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chapter 8 Defined ................................ 202 INTERIOR FLOOR-WALL BASE .............804.4 Defined ................................ 202 INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH ... 803,804 Defined ................................ 202 INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH AND TRIM ............ 803, 804 INVESTIGATIONS, FIRE .................. 104.10 IRRITANT Defined ................................ 202 Gases ........................ 5004.7, 5307.1 ISO-BUTANE (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) 
J 

JURISDICTION Defined ................................ 202 
K 

KETTLES [see ORGANIC COATING or ASPHALT(TAR)KETTLES] 
KEY BOXES .............................. 506 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Maintenance............................506.2 Nonstandard fire service elevator keys ........................ 506.1.2 Required...............................506.1 KEYS, FIRE SERVICE ELEVATOR ...........607.5 
L 

LABELED Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 LADDERS ................1009.14,1012.2, 1015.3, 1 015.4, 1 029.5.2, 11 04.16.6, 5704.1 .8.15 
LANDING Defined................................. 202 Ramps .......................1010.7, 1010.10 Stairs and stairways ............ 1007.3, 1007.7.1, 1 008.1.5, 1 008.1.6, 1009.8, 1009.9.1' 1 024.2.2, 1024.2.4 
LANDSCAPED ROOFS (see also ROOFTOP GARDENS ............ 317 LAUNDRY CARTS ........................318.1 LEAD-ACID BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY (see BATTERY SYSTEMS, STATIONARY STORAGE) LEAD-ACID BATTERY SYSTEM, VALVE­REGULATED (see BATTERY SYSTEMS, STATIONARY STORAGE) LEAKS Compressed gases ....................5303.12 Cryogenic fluids .......................5503.1 0 Explosive materials ....................5604. 1 0 Flammable and combustible liquids ....... 2006.11, 2305.2.3, 2306.7.7.1' 3305.6, 5703.3, 5703.6.3.1' 5704.2. 7.1 0, 5704.2.11.5, 5706.6.1.1 
Highly toxic and toxic materials ........ 6004.2.2.3, 6004.2.2.4, 6004.3.2.2 
LEVEL OF EXIT DISCHARGE (see EXIT DISCHARGE, LEVEL OF) LIABILITY ...............................1 03.4 LIMITED SPRAYING SPACE Defined................................. 202 LINEN CHUTES ......................903.2.11.2 LINEN CONTAINERS ......................808.1 LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG) ......... 2311.7, 5301.1' 5501.1 
Defined................................. 202 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LP-gas).......................... Chapter 61 Container defined ......................... 202 
Containers not in service ..................6110 
Cooking devices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308.3.1.1 
Cylinder exchange .......................6109 
Defined .................................202 
Dispensing and overfilling ..................6106 
Fire protection ...........................61 08 
Installation of equipment. ..................6103 
Location of containers ........ 6104, Table 6104.3 
Motor fuel-dispensing facilities ..............2307 
Parking and garaging of 

LPG-fueled vehicles ....................6111 
Parking and garaging of tank vehicles ........ 6111 
Permit. .....................105.6.27, 105.7.11 
Prohibited use ...........................6105 
Storage ................................6109 


LIQUID Defined .................................202 
LIQUID-OR GAS-FUELED VEHICLES .....................314.4, 2404.18 Permit ..............................1 05.6.26 
LIQUID LEVEL LIMIT CONTROL ......... 5003.2.7, 5005.1.4.1' 5005.1.4.2 
LIQUID OXYGEN AMBULATORY CONTAINER .......... 6306.3.1, 6306.3.5, 6306.3.6.1 
Defined .................................202 


LIQUID OXYGEN HOME CARE CONTAINER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6306.3 Defined .................................202 
LIQUID OXYGEN IN HOME HEALTH CARE .........................6306 LIQUID STORAGE ROOM ...............5704.3.7 Defined .................................202 LIQUID STORAGE WAREHOUSE .........5704.3.8 Defined .................................202 LISTED Defined .................................202 LOADING RACKS ........... 5706.3.8, 5706.5.1.12 LOCKDOWN Defined .................................202 Plans................................404.3.3 LOCKERS, COMBUSTIBLE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808.4 LONGITUDINAL FLUE SPACE (see FLUE SPACES) LOT Defined .................................202 LOT LINE Defined .................................202 LOW-PRESSURE TANK Defined .................................202 LOWER EXPLOSIVE LIMIT (LEL) Defined .................................202 
INDEX 

LOWER FLAMMABLE LIMIT (LFL) 
Defined .................................202 LP-GAS (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) LUMBER YARDS AND 
WOODWORKING FACILITIES ........Chapter 28 
Access plan ........................... 2803.7 
Emergency plan ...................... 2808.1 0 
Fire alarms ........................... 2804.1 
Fire protection ...........................2804 
General ................................2803 
Log storage areas ........................2806 
Open yards ........................... 2803.1 
Permit ..............................105.6.25 
Size of piles .....................2807.2, 2808.3 
Waste removal ........................ 2803.3 


LUMINOUS EGRESS PATH MARKINGS .......1024 

M 

MAGAZINE Defined .................................202 
MAGNESIUM Defined .................................202 Storage ................. 5906.2, 5906.3, 5906.4 Use ................................. 5906.5 
MALL (see COVERED MALL BUILDING) 
MANIFOLDS Cylinders............................. 3509.4 Identification .......................... 3509.5 Piping .................................3509 
MANUAL FIRE ALARM BOX ..............907.4.2 Defined .................................202 MANUAL STOCKING METHODS Defined .................................202 MANUFACTURE OF ORGANIC 
COATINGS........................Chapter 29 MARINAS ..........................Chapter 36 MARINE MOTOR FUEL­
DISPENSING FACILITY ...................2310 
Defined .................................202 
Fire protection ......................... 2310.6 
Fueling .............................. 2310.4 
General .............................. 2310.1 
Nozzles .............................2310.3.3 

MARKING (see also PLACARDS; 
PLACARDING)...........503.3, 909.14, 5003.5.1 
Compressed gas ....................... 5303.2 
Cryogenic containers ................... 5503.4 
Shaftway .............................. 507.2 
Tank ...............................5706.2.2 
Warnings.......................... 5003.8.7.2 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS) ... 5003.4 Aerosols ..............................5101.3 Defined ................................ 202 MATTRESSES (in Groups I and R) ........... 805 MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITY PER CONTROL AREA ........ Tables 5003.1.1 (1) through 5003.1.1 (4), 5003.11 
Defined ................................ 202 MEANS OF EGRESS ....... Chapter 10, 1104, 3311 Accessible means of egress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 007 Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 028 Bleachers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 028.1.1 Buildings under construction or demolition .......................... 3311 Corridors ....................... 1018, 1104.17 Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Egress court .......................202, 1027.4 Elevators, escalators and moving walks ................. 1003.7, 1104.2 Emergency escape and rescue . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 029 Existing buildings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 04 Exit access ............................. 1014 Exit discharge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 027 Exits .................................. 1005 Guards ..........................1013, 1104.6 Handrails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 009.13.1, 1 009.15, 1010.9, 1012, 1028.13 
Illumination............................. 1006 Locks, latches ...................... 1 008.1.9.3 Maintenance of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030 Membrane structures ...................3103.12 Obscuration of ............. 316.4, 1030.4, 1030.6 Ramps ................................ 1010 Signs ................................. 1011 Sizing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 005 Stairways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 009 Tents ...............................3103.12 MECHANICAL REFRIGERATION (see REFRIGERATION SYSTEM) MECHANICAL STOCKING METHODS Defined ................................ 202 MEDICAL CARE (Occupancy Group I) Defined ................................ 202 MEDICAL GAS SYSTEMS .................. 5306 MEMBRANE STRUCTURE Defined ................................ 202 MERCHANDISE PAD ..................... 1017.4 Defined ................................ 202 METAL HYDRIDE AND METAL HYDRIDE STORAGE SYSTEMS ........... 5807 
Defined................................. 202 METERS, GAS ...........................603.9 MEZZANINE .........................1 004.1.1.2 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 MILLS Composite board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805 Plywood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805 Process ............................... 2806 Veneer ................................ 2805 MIRRORS ....................... 1008.1, 1030.6 MIXTURES (Hazardous materials) ........ 5001.2.1 MOBILE FUELING ....................5706.5.4.5 Defined................................. 202 MODIFICATIONS (of code requirements) .....104.8 MONITORING (sprinkler and fire alarm systems) .......903.4.1, 
907.6.5 

Termination of .......................907.6.5.2 MORTAR Defined................................. 202 MOTION PICTURE PROJECTION ROOMS AND FILM ........... 306 Film storage ............................306.2 MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES (see also by type of fuel) ............ Chapter 23 MOTORIZED CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT ........................... 3316 MSDS (see MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET) MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM DEVICE Defined................................. 202 MULTIPLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM ...............907.2.11, 1103.7 Defined................................. 202 MUSEUMS (Occupancy Group A-3) Occupant load .................. Table 1004.1.2 
N 

NATURAL BARRICADE (see BARRICADE) NESTING Defined................................. 202 NET EXPLOSIVE WEIGHT Defined................................. 202 NITROCELLULOSE ............... 2908.1, 2909.4 NORMAL TEMPERATURE AND PRESSURE (NTP) Defined................................. 202 NOSING Defined................................. 202 NOTICE OF VIOLATION ...................109.2 
INDEX 

NOTIFICATION (of Fire department/Fire code official) ..... 401.3, 2006.11.5, 2304.3.6, 5003.3.1 
NOTIFICATION (of Fumigation) ........... 2603.3 NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE (see ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE) NOTIFICATION ZONE (see ZONE, NOTIFICATION) NOZZLES Fuel delivery ......................... 2306.7.6 Fuel transfer .........................2006.3.3 Marine craft ..........................2310.3.3 NUISANCE ALARM Defined .................................202 NURSING HOME (Occupancy Group 1-2) Defined .................................202 
0 

OBSTRUCTIONS Fire apparatus access roads .............. 503.4 Fire department connections .............. 912.3 Fire hydrants ..........................507.5.4 Fire protection equipment. ........ 509.2, 2310.6.2 Fuel-dispensing view .................. 2304.2.4 Manual fire alarm boxes ................. 904.2.6 Means of egress ...............806.3, 807.4.1 (3), 1003.6, 1018.3, 1 028.9.6, 1030.2, 1030.3,1030.6 
Portable fire extinguishers ................ 906.6 
On rooftops ............................ 316.4 
Spraying operation ventilation ........... 2404.7.4 
Sprinkler discharge .............. 315.2.1, 903.3.3 


OCCUPANC~CHANGEOF 
(see CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY) OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION Defined .................................202 Assembly Group A Defined ................................202 Business Group B Defined ................................202 Educational GroupE Defined ................................202 Factory Industrial Group F Defined ................................202 High-hazard Group H Defined ................................202 Institutional Group I Defined ................................202 
Mercantile Group M Defined ................................202 Miscellaneous Group U Defined ................................202 Residential Group R Defined ................................202 Storage Group S Defined ................................202 OCCUPANT LOAD Defined .................................202 Posting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 004.3 OIL-BURNING EQUIPMENT (see FUEL-FIRED APPLIANCES) OIL, FUEL (see FUEL OIL and COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID) OIL, MOTOR (see COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID) OIL, WASTE (see WASTE OIL) OPEN BURNING ...........................307 Defined .................................202 Permit ........................ 105.6.30, 307.2 Precautions in tire storage areas .......... 3404.1 OPEN FLAMES ......................308, 806.4, 2004.6, 2903.6, 5003.7.2, 5604.7.2, 5706.2.1 
Devices ..............................308.1.6 
Group A occupancies .................... 308.3 
Permit ................ 105.6.31, 1 05.6.32, 308.2 
OPEN MALL AND OPEN MALL BUILDING 
(see COVERED MALL BUILDING) 
Defined .................................202 
OPEN PARKING GARAGE 
Defined .................................202 
OPEN SYSTEM (hazardous materials) 
Defined .................................202 
OPERATING BUILDING 
Defined .................................202 
Separation distances ................... 5605.3 
OPERATING PRESSURE 
Defined .................................202 
ORDERS AND NOTICES .................109.2.2 
ORGANIC COATINGS ................ Chapter 29 
Defined .................................202 
Electrical equipment and protection ..........2904 
General ................................2903 
Kettles .................................2906 
Manufacture .......................Chapter 29 
Permit ..............................1 05.6.33 
Process structures .......................2905 
ORGANIC PEROXIDE ............ 2408, Chapter 62 
Defined .................................202 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Indoor storage .........................6204.1 Outdoor storage ....................... 6204.2, Table 6204.1.2, Table 6204.2.4 
Requirements .......................... 6203 Use .................................. 6205 OUTDOOR CONTROL AREA Defined ................................ 202 Hazardous materials ...................5003.12 OUTPATIENT CLINIC (Occupancy Group B) Defined ................................ 202 OVENS (see INDUSTRIAL OVENS) OVERCROWDING Defined ................................ 202 Prohibited..............................107.6 OVERFILL PREVENTION AND PROTECTION ......... 2006.18, 2306.6.2.3, 5704.2.7.5.8, 5704.2.8.18, 5704.2.9.7.6, 5704.2.11.4, 5706.4.6, 5706.6.1.5, 5706.8.3, 5706.8.5, 6106.2 
OWNER Defined ................................ 202 OXIDIZERS, OXIDIZING GASES AND OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUIDS ..... Chapter 63 Defined ................................ 202 Indoor storage .........................6304.1 Outdoor storage ........................6304.2 Requirements .......................... 6303 Use .................................. 6305 OXIDIZING CRYOGENIC FLUID Defined ................................ 202 OXIDIZING GAS Defined ................................ 202 OXYGEN IN HOME HEALTH CARE .......... 6306 OZONE-GAS GENERATOR ................ 6005 Automatic shutdown ....................6005.5 Defined ................................ 202 Location ..............................6005.3 Manual shutdown .......................6005.6 
p 

PALLETS, IDLE COMBUSTIBLE ........ 5704.3.3.9 
PANIC HARDWARE ........... 1008.1.10, 1008.2.1 
Defined ................................ 202 
PARKING AND GARAGING 
Aircraft-fueling vehicles ....... 2006.5.1.3, 2006.20 
Flammable-and combustible-
liquid tank vehicles .......... 5706.6.2, 5706.6.3 
LP-gas tank vehicles ..................... 6111 
LP-gas-fueled vehicles ..................6111.3 
PASS-THROUGH ............. 2703.3.2, 2703.10.3 

Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 PATIO HEATERS (see PORTABLE OUTDOOR GAS-FIRED HEATING APPLIANCES) PENTHOUSE Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 PERMISSIBLE EXPOSURE LIMIT (PEL) Defined................................. 202 PERMITS ................................ 1 05 Defined................................. 202 PERSON Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 PERSONAL CARE SERVICE Defined................................. 202 PESTICIDE Defined................................. 202 PHOTOLUMINESCENT ............ 1011.5, 1024.4 Defined................................. 202 PHYSICAL HAZARD ................. 5007.2.2.1, Table 5003.1.1 (1 ), Table 5003.1.1 (3) 
Defined................................. 202 PIPELINES .............................5706.1 PIPING, VALVES AND FITTINGS Flammable and combustible liquids ........ 2306.6, 2306.7.9.1.3, 5706.4.7.6 
Hazardous materials .................. 5003.2.2 
Highly toxic and toxic gases ............6004.2.2.5 
Organic coating manufacturing ............. 2907 
Ozone-gas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6005 
LP-gas in membrane structures ......... 3104.16.3 
Protection from vehicles ................ 5003.9.3 
PLACARDS; PLACARDING (see also SIGNS) 
Cryogenic fluid containers .............. 5503.4.2 
Explosives .................5604.6.5, 5604.6.5.2 
Flammable and combustible 
liquid tanks ...............5703.5.3, 5704.2.3.2 
Vacant buildings .........................311.5 
PLANS (see also CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS) 
Diagrams ............................ 408.4.1 
Evacuation ........................... 404.3.1 
Facility closure ..........................407.7 
Fire safety ........................... 404.3.2 
Hazardous materials management ....... 5605.2.1 
Lockdown ............................ 404.3.3 
Maintenance......................... 5605.2.2 
Prefire................................5608.2 
Specifications ..................... 2308.8.1.2.1 
Storage............................. 5704.4.1 
PLASTICS 
Cellulose nitrate .................... Chapter 65 
Classifications of .......................3203.7 
Foam ............. 803.7, 804.2, 807.4.2.1, 808.3 

INDEX 
Manufacturing of glass-fiber-reinforced ....... 2411 Pyroxylin ................... 105.6.37, 903.2.5.3, Chapter 65, 11 03.4.1 

PLOSOPHORIC MATERIAL ............... 5605.1 Defined .................................202 PLYWOOD AND VENEER MILLS Defined .................................202 Fire alarm system .............. 907.2.17, 2804.1 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS (see FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, PORTABLE) PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES .............. 302.1, 307.4.3, 307.5 Defined .................................202 PORTABLE OUTDOOR GAS-FIRED HEATING APPLIANCES ................ 603.4.2 PORTABLE TANKS Defined ................................. 202 Design, construction and capacity ........ 5704.3.1 Empty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5704.3.3.4 Flammable liquids .....................2306.2.5 Flow rate ......... 6004.2.2.7.5, Table 6004.2.2.7.5 Indoor storage .......................5704.3.3 Local exhaust ............. 6004.2.2.4, 6004.3.2.3 Outdoor storage ....................... 5704.4, Table 5704.4, 6004.3.4 
Piles ................. 5704.3.3.10, 5704.3.7.2.3 POSTING Evacuation diagrams (Group R-1) ......... 408.8.1 Explosives and pyrotechnic amounts ...... 5605.6.9 No smoking signs ....................... 310.3 Occupant load . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 004.3, 5605.6.9 Permits .............................. 1 05.3.5 POWDER COATING .......................2406 POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS ............ 309 Battery charging ........................ 309.2 Defined .................................202 Fire extinguishers ....................... 309.4 Refueling ............................. 309.5 Repairs ............................... 309.6 Ventilation ............................. 309.3 PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE . . . . . . . . . . . . 3304, 3305.4, 3404 
PREMISES IDENTIFICATION ................. 505 PRESSURE VESSEL Defined .................................202 PRESPOTTING (see DRY CLEANING) PRIMARY CONTAINMENT Defined .................................202 PRIMARY TANK Defined .................................202 
PROCESS Piping .................................2907 Raw materials ......................2908, 2909 PROCESS TRANSFER Defined .................................202 Operations ........................... 5706.5 PROPANE (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) PROPELLANT (Aerosol) Defined .................................202 PROPELLANT, SMOKELESS (see SMOKELESS PROPELLANT) PROPYLENE (see LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) PROXIMATE AUDIENCE Defined .................................202 Displays ............................5608.2.2 PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL (see HOSPITALS AND PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS) PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGES AND EVENTS ........ 403 PUBLIC WAY .......................... 1027.5 Defined .................................202 PYROPHORIC Defined .................................202 Indoor storage ......................... 6404.1 Materials ..........................Chapter 64 Outdoor storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6404.2 Requirements ...........................6403 Use ...................................6405 PYROTECHNIC ARTICLE Defined .................................202 PYROTECHNIC COMPOSITION Defined .................................202 PYROTECHNIC SPECIAL EFFECT Defined .................................202 PYROTECHNIC SPECIAL EFFECTS MATERIAL Defined .................................202 Permit ..............................1 05.6.36 PYROTECHNICS Defined .................................202 PYROXYLIN (CELLULOSE NITRATE) PLASTICS Decorative materials ..................... 807.3 Fire protection .........903.2.5.3, 6504.2, 11 03.4.1 Raw material .......................... 6504.1 Requirements ...........................6503 Storage and handling .....................6504 
Q 

QUICK-RESPONSE (QR) SPRINKLERS (see AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS) 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
R 

RACK STORAGE ........3108, 51 04.4.3, 5704.3.3.6 RADIOACTIVE Gases ........................ 5004.7, 5307.1 Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5004.3.1 RAILWAY Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 RAMPS ....................... 1010,1022,1026 Defined ................................ 202 RAW PRODUCT (Wood products) Defined ................................ 202 Storage and processing ................... 2808 REACTIVE MATERIALS [see UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIALS or WATER REACTIVE MATERIALS] READY BOX .......................... 5608.5.5 Defined ................................ 202 RECALL, FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM COMPONENT ..................901.9 RECORD DRAWINGS (fire alarm system)... 907.8.3 Defined ................................ 202 RECORDS ............... 1 04.6, 1 04.6.3, 107.2.1, 405.5, 604.3.2, 606.15, 901.6.2, 2006.5.3.2.2, 3210.1' 3503.5, 5003.3.1.1' 5603 
RECREATIONAL FIRE .................. 307.4.2 
Defined ................................ 202 
RECYCLING FACILITIES .................2808.1 
REDUCED FLOW VALVE ............ 6004.2.2.7.5 
Defined ................................ 202 
REFERENCED STANDARDS ..... 102.7, Chapter 80 
REFINERY 
Defined ................................ 202 
Petroleum ............................5706.7 
REFRIGERANT ..........................606.2 
Classification ...........................606.3 
Defined ................................ 202 
Detector ...............................606.8 
Discharge.............................606.12 
Storage ..............................606.11 
Type ..................................606.4 
REFRIGERATION SYSTEM ............... 606.9.1 
Defined ................................ 202 
REFUGE, AREA OF (see AREA OF REFUGE) 
REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. ... 104.7.2, 
105.4.1' 909.9, 909.18.8.3 

Defined ................................ 202 

RELEASE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL .....5003.3 REMOTE EMERGENCY SHUTOFF DEVICE Defined................................. 202 Use of .............................5706.5.4.5 REMOTE SOLVENT RESERVOIR ...... 5705.3.6.2.3 Defined................................. 202 REPAIR GARAGES ....................... 2311 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Gas detection system .................. 2311.7.2 LP-gas-fueled vehicles ...................6111.3 Sources of ignition ......................2311.3 Sprinklers required ....................903.2.9.1 Ventilation .......................... 2311.4.3 REPORTING Aviation facilities fire extinguisher use .......2005.8 Emergencies ...........................401.1 Fire ................................... 3309 Fire alarm .............................. 3309 Leak .............................5704.2.7.10 Record keeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5603 Research reports ...................... 104.9.1 RESIN APPLICATION AREA .............2403.2.5, 2409.3, 2409.5, 2409.6 
Defined................................. 202 RESPONSE PROCEDURES ................. 406 RESPONSIBLE PERSON Defined................................. 202 RETAIL DISPLAY AREA (for aerosols) Defined................................. 202 Manufacturing facilities ...................51 07.1 Maximum quantities .................... 5106.2, Table 5106.2, Table 5106.3 
REVOCATION OF PERMITS ................105.5 RIGHT OF ENTRY ........................1 04.3 ROADWAYS, ACCESS FOR FIRE APPARATUS (see FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD) ROCKETS AND ROCKETRY ............. 5601.1.4 ROLL COATING Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 ROOF, LANDSCAPED (see ROOFTOP GARDENS) ROOF VENTS ............................. 910 ROOFING OPERATIONS SAFEGUARDS ...... 3317 ROOFS Safeguarding operations .................. 3317 Stairway access ..........504.3, 1009.14, 1009.16 ROOFTOP GARDENS AND LANDSCAPED ROOFS ............ 317,905.3.8 
RUBBISH (TRASH) Chutes, automatic sprinkler protection . . . 903.2.11 .2 Containers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304.3 Defined .................................202 
RULES........................ 5603.7, 5605.6.6 

s 

SAFETY CAN ........................ 5003.9.10 
Defined .................................202 

SCISSOR STAIR Defined .................................202 Use of .............................. 1015.2.1 
SEAT STABILITY ...................... 1028.12 SEATING, FOLDING AND TELESCOPIC ... 1025.1.1 Defined ................................. 202 
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT Above-ground tanks .................... 2306.5 Defined .................................202 Hazardous materials ............ 5004.2, 5004.2.2, 
5005.1.3, 5005.2.1.4, 5005.2.2.5, 5005.3.5, 5005.3.7 
Indoor storage ..................... 5004.2.2.3 Outdoor storage .................... 5004.2.2.4 Type II dry cleaning systems ............ 2107.2.3 Underground tanks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5003.2.4.1 

SECURITY DEVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316.4, 1 030.2.1 SEGREGATED Defined ................................. 202 SELF-CLOSING Defined ................................. 202 SELF-LUMINOUS ................. 1 011.4, 1 024.4 Defined .................................202 
SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITY ............. 2304 Defined .................................202 
SEMICONDUCTOR FABRICATION FACILITY ......................... Chapter 27 Automatic sprinkler system. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2703.1 0 Defined .................................202 Emergency alarm system . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2703.12 Emergency power. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.2.8, 2703.15 Manual fire alarm system . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2703.11 Permit .............................. 105.6.21 Quantity limits ................... Table 2704.2.1 Storage ................................2704 Transportation and handling. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2705.3 Use and handling ........................ 2705 SERVICE CORRIDOR ............ 2703.3.8, 2703.9, 2703.12.1.1' 2705.3.3 
Defined .................................202 

INDEX 

SERVICE PERSONNEL, CERTIFICATION OF (see CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PERSONNEL) SERVICE UTILITIES ........................112 SHAFTS........................... 704, 11 03.4 SHAFTWAY MARKINGS .................. 316.2 SHELF STORAGE .........................3207 Defined .................................202 Specialty storage ........................321 0 SHOCK PADDING ......................5003.9.7 SHROUDS, DECORATIVE (on chimneys) ... 603.6.3 SIGNS (see also PLACARDS; PLACARDING) Access roads ...................... 5604.6.5.1 Alarms and warning .............. 904.3.4, 2507, 2305.6, 231 0.5.5.1' 2603.3.1' 5703.5.1 
Electrical rooms .......................605.3.1 
Electrostatic apparatus .................2407.5.2 
Emergency .......................606.7, 607.2 
Exit ...................604.2.3, 1011, 2403.12.6 
Fire alarm boxes ..................... 907.5.2.4 
Fire department connection ............... 912.4 
Fire protection equipment rooms ........... 509.1 
Fire-resistance-rated construction .........703.2.1 
Foam plastic ........................... 808.2 
Hazardous identification .......... 5003.5, 5003.6, 

5003.11.3.1 0, 5503.4.1 

Illumination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 011.3 Marking ............................... 503.3 No smoking .......... 31 0.3, 2305.3, 2308.8.1.2.6, 5003.7.1' 5704.2.3.1 
Placards ...................... 311.5, 5604.6.5 
Removal .............................. 310.4 
Stairway exit .................... 1 011.3, 1 011.4 
Stationary storage battery systems .......... 608.7 
Storage tanks ................5704.2.3, 5706.3.7 
Street or road .......................... 505.2 
Tampering with ........................109.2.4 
Vacant buildings ........................ 311.5 
Welding .............................2403.2.7 

SILANE GAS .............. 6401.1, 6404.2, 6405.3 SINGLE-STATION SMOKE ALARM .. 907.2.11, 1103.2 Defined .................................202 SITE Defined .................................202 SITE-FABRICATED STRETCH SYSTEMS .... 803.9 Defined .................................202 SLEEPING UNIT Defined .................................202 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION AND SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION COMPONENTS .........................5606 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
Defined ................................ 202 SMALL ARMS PRIMERS Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Group M ...........................5606.5.1.3 Group R-3 .......................... 5606.4.3 Storage ...........................5606.5.2.3 SMOKE ALARM .......... 907.2.11, 1029.4, 1103.2 Defined ................................ 202 SMOKE AND HEAT VENTS ........... 910,3206.7 SMOKE BARRIERS Construction............................909.5 Defined ................................ 202 Maintenance ......................... 703.1.2 Opening protectives in .............703.2, 909.5.2 Pressure differential. .................. 909.18.6 SMOKE COMPARTMENT Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909 SMOKE DAMPER Defined ................................ 202 SMOKE DETECTOR ................. 907.2.13.1, 907.2.18.1' 907.4.1 
Defined ................................ 202 SMOKE-DEVELOPED INDEX Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 SMOKE PARTITIONS ................... 703.1.2 SMOKE-PROTECTED ASSEMBLY SEATING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 028.6.2 Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 SMOKE REMOVAL ..................... 910.4.6 SMOKELESS PROPELLANTS Defined ................................ 202 General ............................... 5606 Storage and handling ..................... 5604 SMOKEPROOFENCLOSURE Defined ................................ 202 SMOKING ........ 310, 2003.2, 2006.3.8, 231 0.5.5.1, 2403.2.6, 2803.5.3, 2903.7, 3304.1' 3404.3, 5003.7.1' 5704.2.3.1' 5706.6.1.9 
Signs .................................310.3 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER SYSTEMS ..................... 605.11 Permit ............................. 105.7.13 SOLID (material state) Defined ................................ 202 SOLID SHELVING Defined ................................ 202 Fire protection ......................3208.2.2.1 Racks .............................. 3208.2.2 SOLVENT DISTILLATION UNIT ............ 5705.4 Defined ................................ 202 
SOLVENT OR LIQUID CLASSIFICATIONS, DRY CLEANING ........................ 2103 Defined................................. 202 SPACE HEATERS ..................605.10, 3303 SPECIAL AMUSEMENT BUILDING Defined................................. 202 Exit access travel distance ...........Table 1016.2 Fire alarm system .............. 907.2.12, 914.7.2 Permit. .............................. 1 05.6.2 Sprinklers ..............Table 903.2.11.6, 914.7.1 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL EXPLOSIVE DEVICE ...................5601.1 Defined ................................. 202 SPILL CONTROL Carts and trucks ....................5003.10.3.4 Dry cleaning ......................... 2107.2.3 Flammable and combustible liquids ........ 5703.4, 5704.3.7.3, 5704.3.8.2, 5704.4.3, 5705.3.7 .5.3, 5705.3.7 .6.3, 5705.3.8.1' 5706.2.6, 5706.5.1.5 
Hazardous materials ........... 5004.2, 5005.1.3, 
5005.2.1.3, 5005.2.2.4, 
5005.3.4, 5005.3.6 

Lead-acid battery systems .................608.5 
Service stations and repair garages .........2305.3 
SPILLS ............... 2004.4, 2009.4.2, 231 0.5.2, 
2404.18.5.3, 3305.6 

SPONTANEOUS IGNITION HAZARDS ....... 304.3.1, 305.2, 3304.4 SPOTTING (see DRY CLEANING) SPRAY BOOTH Areas adjacent to ....................2403.2.1.3 Construction ........................2404.3.2.1 Defined................................. 202 Permit. ..................... 105.6.41, 105.7.14 Ventilation .........................2403.3.5.2 SPRAY FINISHING ................ 1 05.6.41, 2404 SPRAY ROOM Construction ......................... 2404.3.1 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Permit. ..................... 105.6.41, 105.7.14 Ventilation .........................2403.3.5.2 SPRAYING SPACE Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 STAGES, FIRE PROTECTION FOR ...905.3.4, 914.6 STAIR Defined................................. 202 STAIRWAY .............................. 1009 Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 Identification ....................1022.8, 1022.9, 1104.20, 1104.23 
STAIRWAY, EXTERIOR .................... 1026 Defined .................................202 STAIRWAY, INTERIOR ................ 1009, 1022 Defined .................................202 STAIRWAY, SPIRAL. ................... 1009.12 Defined .................................202 STANDBY PERSONNEL (see also FIRE WATCH) ............... 3104.20 STANDBY POWER SYSTEM ......... 604, 5005.1.5 STANDPIPE SYSTEM, CLASSES OF Defined .................................202 STANDPIPE, TYPES OF Defined .................................202 STANDPIPES .............................905 Buildings under construction/demolition .......3313 Existing buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103.6, 1103.6.1 Heliports and helistops ... 905.3.6, 1103.6.2, 2007.5 Landscaped roofs ......................905.3.8 Rooftop gardens .......................905.3.8 STATIC PILES (wood products) Defined .................................202 Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808.6 STATIC PROTECTION ................ 5706.5.1.7 STATIONARY STORAGE BATTERY SYSTEMS (see BATTERY SYSTEM, STATIONARY STORAGE) STEEL Defined .................................202 STILLS, DRY CLEANING ......... 21 04.2.4, 2107.1 STORAGE Aerosol, inside ..........................5104 Ammunition.............................5606 Attics................................315.2.4 Automated .............................3209 Boiler rooms ..........................315.2.3 Calcium carbide ....................... 3507.1 Carousel ............................. 3209.3 Combustible fibers, baled ..................5205 Combustible fibers, detached structure . . . . . 5204.6 Combustible fibers, loose ..................5206 Combustible liquids ......................5704 Combustible materials .............. 315, 2003.6 Compressed gas ........................5304 Concealed spaces .....................315.2.4 Corridors and lobbies in Group E ........ 807.4.3.1 Corrosive materials .......................5404 Cryogenic fluids .........................5504 Cylinder and container, welding ........... 3505.2 Electrical rooms .......................315.2.3 Explosives .............................5604 Exterior, finished lumber ...................2809 
INDEX 

Flammable gases ........................5804 
Flammable liquids ........................5704 
Flammable solids ........................5904 
Foam.......................... 5704.2.9.2.2.1 
Fuel oil ............................... 603.3 
Hazardous materials ......................5004 
Hazardous materials storage defined ..........202 
High-piled combustible ...............Chapter 32 
Hogged material ....................2807, 2808 
Indoor ..................................315 
Log areas ..............................2806 
Loose combustible fibers ..................5204 
LP-gas.................................6109 
Means of egress ........315.2.2, 807.4.3.1, 1030.3 
Mechanical refrigeration rooms ............ 606.10 
Mechanical rooms ......................315.2.3 
Nitrocellulose ......................... 2909.4 
Organic peroxide .................. 2909.5, 6204 
Outside ............................... 315.3 
Oxidizers...............................6304 
Pyrophoric materials ......................6404 
Pyroxylin (cellulose nitrate) plastics ..........6504 
Rack ..................................3208 
Semiconductor fabrication facilities ...........2704 
Solid-piled and shelf ......................3207 
Specialty ...............................321 0 
Tank ..........................2909.2, 5704.2 
Tire ..............................3405, 3409 
Under floors ..........................315.2.4 
Under high-voltage transmission lines ....... 315.4 
Unstable (reactive) materials ...............6604 
Water-reactive solids and liquids ............6704 
Wood chips ........................2807, 2808 
STORAGE BATTERY SYSTEMS, 
STATIONARY............................608 
Permit ...............................1 05.6.5 
Room design ........................... 608.3 
Signs................................. 608.6 
Ventilation ............................. 608.5 
STORY 
Defined .................................202 
STORY ABOVE-GRADE PLANE 
Defined .................................202 
STRAW .........................2404.5, 2903.4 
Waste material ........................304.1.1 
SUB-ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE 
GAS SYSTEMS (SAGS) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1803.16 
SUMPS ..............................5706.3.3 
SUPERVISING STATION ........... 903.4.1, 905.9 
Defined .................................202 
SUPERVISION................ 903.4, 905.9, 913.4 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
SUPERVISORY SERVICE Defined ................................ 202 SUPERVISORY SIGNAL ............ 903.4.1, 905.9 Defined ................................ 202 SUPERVISORY SIGNAL-INITIATING DEVICE Defined ................................ 202 SYSTEM (hazardous materials) Defined ................................ 202 
T 

TANK 
Abandonment of ........ 5704.2.13, 5704.2.13.1.4 
Above-ground ...............2306.2.2, 2306.2.3, 
2306.2.4, 3104.2.1' 5003.2.4.2, 
5704.2.7.3.5.1' 5704.2.9, 5704.2.13.2 
Anchoring..........................5704.2.8.5 
Capacity............................ 2305.1.2 
Compressed gas ...............5303.1, 5303.4.2 
Construction...................... 5704.2.9.6.1 
Cooking oil storage ....................... 610 
Defective ..........................5003.2.6.2 
Defined ................................ 202 
Design and construction ....... 5003.2.1, 5704.2.7, 
5704.2.9.6.1 
Diking ............................5704.2.10.2 
Discharge.......................5704.2.7 .5.5.2 
Dispensing .................. 5706.2.8, 5706.5.4 
Drainage control .......................2306.5 
Empty............. 5003.2.5, 5704.3.3.4, 5704.4.8 
Filling operations ............ 2305.1, 5706.6.1.1 0 
Inside buildings .............2306.2.2, 5704.2.9.5 
Installation .................. 5003.2.4, 5704.2.7 
Lining ............................5704.2.7.11 
Low-pressure ..........................3202.1 
Maintenance ..........................2003.9 
Manifolding ...................... 5704.2.7.3.5 
Marking ............................ 5706.2.2 
Openings ......................... 2306.6.2.1, 
5704.2.7.5, 5704.2.9.1 0 
Out of service ...........5003.2.6.1, 5704.2.13.1.1 
Outside buildings ....................5704.2.9.5 
Overfill protection ....... 5704.2.7.5.8, 5704.2.9.7.6, 
5704.2.11.4, 5706.6.1.5, 
5706.8.3, 5706.8.5 
Permanent and temporary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706.2.4 
Piping .............................. 2306.6.3 
Piping, valves and fittings .............. 2306.6.2 
Portable ......................2306.2.5, 5704.3 
Preparation for fueling ................. 2310.5.6 

Pressure.................... 2409.3, 5704.2.7.2 Primary................................. 202 Protected above-ground (see above-ground) Removal. .......................... 5704.2.14 Repair, alteration or reconstruction ......5704.2.7 .6 Security ..............................2306.3 Solvent storage ........................2107.3 Stationary........................ 6004.2.2.7.4 Storage........ 2009.2, 5704, 5706.3.2.1, 5706.3.5 Testing ............................ 5704.2.12 Underground .............. 2306.2.1, 5003.2.4.1, 5704.2.7 .3.5.2, 5704.2.11 ' 5704.2.13.1 Vaults ...................... 2306.2.4, 5704.2.8 Vehicle ....................2009.3, 5706.5.1.15, 5706.5.1.16, 5706.6 Venting ................ 5704.2.7.3, 5704.2.7.3.6, 5706.2.4.2 Water ........................ 507.2.2, 507.5.3 TANK, ATMOSPHERIC Defined................................. 202 TANK CARS (see also BULK TRANSFER) ........... 5706.5.1 Loading racks or stations ...... 2909.3, 5706.5.1.12 Use as storage tank ................... 5704.2.2 TANK, PORTABLE Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 TANK, PRIMARY Defined................................. 202 TANK, PROTECTED ABOVE-GROUND Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202 TANK, STATIONARY Defined................................. 202 TANK VEHICLE .....2904.3.2, 5706.5.1.16.1, 5706.6 Aircraft fuel-servicing ....................2005.4 Certification .......................5706.5.1.15 Construction ......................... 5003.2.1 Defined................................. 202 Dispensing from .............. 5706.2.8, 5706.5.4 Fire protection ....................... 5706.6.4 Garaging .....................5706.6.1, 6111.3 Loading racks or stations .................2909.3 Operation ........................... 5706.6.1 Parking ........................ 5706.6.3, 6111 Smoking ...........................5706.6.1.9 Stability...........................5706.5.1.16 Use as storage tank ................... 5704.2.2 TAR KETTLE [see ASPHALT (TAR) KETTLES] TELEPHONE DIALING-DEVICES, AUTOMATIC ........................907 .6.5.1 TEMPORARY HEATING EQUIPMENT .. 605.10, 3303 TEMPORARY WIRING .............. 605.9, 3304.7 
TENANT SPACES, VACANT (see VACANT PREMISES) TENTS AND OTHER MEMBRANE STRUCTURES ..................... Chapter 31 Access .............................3103.8.1 Air-inflated structure .................... 3102.1 Air-supported structure ........... 3102.1, 3103.10 Approval ............................. 3103.2 Crowd managers .................... 3104.20.2 Defined .................................202 Fire safety requirements ................. 3104.2 Generators .......................... 3104.19 Heating and cooking equipment .......... 3104.15 Location ............................3103.8.3 LP-gas ............................. 3104.16 Means of egress ...................... 3103.12 Occupant load ....................... 3104.14 On buildings ......................... 3103.8.4 Permit. ..................... 105.6.43, 105.7.16 Portable fire extinguisher .............. 3104.8.12 Seating ............................. 3103.11 Structural stability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 03.9 Waste .............................. 3104.22 TESTING, ACCEPTANCE (see ACCEPTANCE TESTING) THEFT RESISTANT Defined .................................202 TIMBER AND LUMBER PRODUCTION FACILITIES ................ 2807 Defined .................................202 TIRE REBUILDING ........................3403 Precautions against fire ...................3404 TIRE STORAGE ..................... Chapter 34 Access ................................3406 Fencing ................................3407 Indoor .................................3409 Outdoor................................3405 Precautions against fire ...................3404 TIRES, BULK STORAGE OF Defined .................................202 TOOL (semiconductor fabrication) Defined .................................202 TORCH-APPLIED ROOF SYSTEM Defined .................................202 TORCHES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308.4 Permit. ............................. 105.6.31 TOWNHOUSE Defined .................................202 TOXIC Defined .................................202 Materials .......................·... Chapter 60 
INDEX 

TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICES .............503.4.1 Defined .................................202 TRAINING, EMPLOYEE EMERGENCY . . . . . . . . 406 TRANSIENT Defined .................................202 TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT ..................914.8.2 Defined .................................202 TRANSPORTATION Hazardous materials .............2705.3, 5003.1 0 LP-gas............................... 6101.1 TRANSVERSE FLUE SPACE (see FLUE SPACES) TRASH (see RUBBISH) TRAVEL DISTANCE, EXIT ACCESS ..........1016 TREATMENT SYSTEMS ....... 606.12.4, 2703.14.3, 6003.1.3, 6003.2.3.2, 6004.2.2.7, 6004.3.2.5 TROUBLE SIGNAL ............ 903.4.1, 2311.7.2.3 Defined .................................202 TUBE TRAILERS .....................5303.7.11 Defined .................................202 TURNSTILES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 008.3 
u 

UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE ...5003.3.1, 5706.2.6 Defined .................................202 UNDERGROUND BUILDINGS ......404.2, 604.2.16, 905.3.5, 907.2.18, 907.2.19, 914.5 
UNLAWFUL ACTS ....................... 109.1 UNSAFE BUILDINGS (see BUILDING) UNSAFE HEATING APPLIANCES ........... 603.7 UNSTABLE (REACTIVE) MATERIAL ..... Chapter 66 Defined .................................202 Indoor storage ......................... 6604.1 Outdoor storage ....................... 6604.2 Requirements ...........................6603 Use ................................. 6605.1 UNVENTED HEATERS .................... 603.4 UNWANTED FIRE Defined .................................202 Reporting ........................ 401.3, 3309 UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE (see FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERED) USE, CHANGE OF (see CHANGE OF USE) USE (MATERIAL) Defined .................................202 UTILITY IDENTIFICATION ................509.1.1 
2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
v 


VACANT PREMISES ....................... 311 Abandoned .......................... 311.1.1 Fire protection systems ................. 311.2.2 Placarding .............................311.5 Removal of hazardous materials ............311.4 Safeguarding ...........................311.2 Tenant spaces ........................ 311.1.2 Waste removal ..........................311.3 VAPOR AREA, FLAMMABLE Defined ................................ 202 VAPOR BALANCE SYSTEM ............2306.7.9.1 VAPOR PRESSURE Defined ................................ 202 VAPOR-PROCESSING SYSTEM ................... 2306.7.9.2, 5706.8 VAPOR-RECOVERY SYSTEM .....2306.7.9, 5706.8 VEHICLE IMPACT PROTECTION (see IMPACT PROTECTION, VEHICLE) VEHICLES ..............................314.4 Compressed natural gas powered ........... 2308 Gas-fueled ...........................2404.18 Industrial ........................... 6103.2.2 Liquid-fueled .........................31 04.18 LP-gas-powered ........................ 2307 Overfilling .............................2307.7 Storage ...............................313.1 Tank......................2009.3, 5706.5.1.15, 5706.5.1.16, 5706.6 
VENTILATION Battery systems .........................608.6 Defined ................................ 202 Dry cleaning ......... 2104.2.1, 21 05.2.3, 2106.3.3 Electrostatic equipment ..................2406.7 Exhaust ....................2703.14, 2703.15.2 Floor surfacing .........................241 0.5 Hazardous materials ................ 5003.8.4.2, 5003.8.5.2, 5003.8.6.2, 5005.2.1.1' 5005.2.2.2 
Indoor dispensing .................... 5005.1.9 
Indoor storage areas ....................5004.3 
Industrial ovens ........................3003.1 
Powered industrial trucks ..................309.3 
Process structures ......................2905.5 
Refrigeration machinery room .............606.13 
Reinforced plastics manufacturing ..........2411 .5 
Repair garages .............. 2311.4.3, 2311.7.1 
Spray finishing ....... 2404.1.4.3, 2404.2, 2404.2.4, 
2404.6.3, 2406.1 0 

VENTS, SMOKE AND HEAT (see SMOKE AND HEAT VENTS) VIOLATION PENALTIES ...................109.3 VISIBLE ALARM NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE ........................907.5.2.3 Defined................................. 202 
w 

WAREHOUSE Aerosol. ..................... 51 02.1, 51 04.3.2, Table 5104.3.2, 5104.4 Liquid ................ 5104.6, Table 5704.3.6(2), Table 5704.3.6(3), 5704.3.8, 5704.3.8.5 WARNING SIGNS Compressed gas vaults ............... 5303.16.3 Explosives ................. 5604.1 0.5, 5605.8.2 Fire-extinguishing systems ............... 904.3.4 Flammable and combustible liquid vaults ......................5704.2.8.15 Flammable finish operations ............ 2403.2.7 Flammable liquids storage ................5703.5 Fruit and crop ripening .................... 2507 Fuel dispensing ........................2305.6 Fumigation and insecticidal fogging ....... 2603.3.1 Hazard communication (haz-mat) .... 407.3, 5003.5 Oxygen in home health care ..............6306.6 Shaftways.....................316.2.1, 316.2.2, WARRANTS ........................... 104.3.1 WASTE MATERIALS, COMBUSTIBLE............105.6.45, 304,3304.2 WASTE OIL ................... 603.1.4, 2311.2.2 WASTEBASKETS AND WASTE CONTAINERS ............. 304.3, 808.1 WATCH, FIRE (see FIRE WATCH) WATER-REACTIVE MATERIAL ........ Chapter 67 Defined................................. 202 Indoor storage .........................6704.1 Outdoor storage ........................6704.2 Requirements........................... 6703 Use................................... 6705 WATER SUPPLY Buildings under construction or demolition, standpipes .................. 3313 Fire protection ...................... 507, 3312 Required...............................507.1 Secondary ..........................903.3.5.2 Sprinklers ............................ 903.3.5 Standpipes ............................. 3313 Test ..................................507.4 
INDEX 

WEATHER PROTECTION ....... 5004.13, 5005.3.9, 
5608.5.2, 5704.4.7, 
5705.3.8.4, 5706.5.1.2, 6003.2.5, 
6004.3.3, 41 04.2.2, 41 05.2 

WELDING AND OTHER HOT WORK ..... Chapter 35 Cutting ................................ 3505 Electric arc .............................3506 Gas ...................................3505 Permit .............................. 105.6.11 Requirements ...................... 3503, 3504 Tire storage yards ...................... 3404.2 Warning signs in flammable 
finish operations .................... 2403.2.7 WELL DRILLING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5706.3 WET-CHEMICAL EXTINGUISHING AGENT ... 904.5 
Defined .................................202 WET FUELING (see MOBILE FUELING) WET HOSING (see MOBILE FUELING) WHARVES............ 2310.3.1, 231 0.5.5, 5706.4.7 WILDFIRE RISK AREA ............. 308.1.6, 308.2 
Defined ................................. 202 
WINDER ..................... 1009.7.3,1009.11 

Defined .................................202 WINDOW WELLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029.5 WINDOWLESS STORIES OR AREAS .... 903.2.11.1 WIRELESS PROTECTION SYSTEM ........ 907.6.1 
Defined .................................202 WIRING, ELECTRICAL 
Hazards ................................605 WOODCHIPS .......................2807, 2808 WOODWORKING FACILITIES 
(see LUMBER YARDS AND WOODWORKING FACILITIES)........................ 903.2.3.1 WORKSTATION (semiconductor manufacturing) Defined .................................202 
y 

YARD Defined .................................202 
z 

ZONE, FIRE ALARM..................... 907.6.3 
Defined .................................202 
ZONE, NOTIFICATION 
Defined .................................202 
ZONING INDICATOR PANEL. ........... 907.6.3.1 

2013 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE 
NEW TOOLS FOR YOUR FIRE CODE 

CODE AND COMMENTARY IN ONE I 
2012 IFC'" CODE AND COMMENTARY 
This insightful reference contains the complete text of the IFC plus expert commentary 
printed after each code section. The Code and Commentary is an ideal go-to reference 
for effective design, construction and inspection. Features: 
../ 	All text, tables and figures from the ../ Historical and technical background code 
../ General Comments and Purpose ../ Expert technical commentary printed statements for each chapter after each code section 
../ Suggestions for effective application 
SOFT COVER #3410512 I PDF CD-ROM #3410CD12 I PDF DOWNLOAD #874P12 
DOWNLOAD CRITICAL CODE HISTORY! 
CODE CHANGES RESOURCE COLLECTION 2012 EDITION: ACOMPLETE REVISION HISTORY, 2009 TO THE 2012 I-CODES 
Similar to a legislative history for laws and statutes, this provides a complete revision history from the 2009 to the 2012 editions of the IBC, IRC, IFC, IPC and IMC. The information provided includes the original proposal, committee action and final action documentation, all in a single document, which greatly simplifies the research that would otherwise be necessary to track the history of a new, revised or deleted code section from 2009 to 2012. This valuable history will quickly pay for itself in time saved researching code history. 
PDF DOWNLOAD #8892Pl2 
INCLUDES BONUS ONLINE QUill 

THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE® STUDY COMPANION 
A comprehensive self-study guide addressing occupancy classification, types of construction, fire protection systems, fire-resistance-rated construction, means of egress, and more. The Companion's 18 study sessions provide practical learning assignments and contain specific learning objectives, applicable code text and commentary, and a list of questions summarizing key points for study. An answer key indicates the correct response and code reference for each of the 584 study questions. 
SOFT COVER #4407Sl2 I PDF DOWNLOAD #89SOP082 
GET TEST-READYI 
2012 IFC FLASHCARDS 

This helpful study aid provides an effective, time tested method for study and information 
retention. FlashCards can be used anytime, anywhere and are prepared by code experts to 
ensure accuracy and quality. (190 cards) 
#1421512 
FREE PREVIEW VIDEO ONLINE! 

SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE®> 2012 EDITION 
This must-have guide provides comprehensive, yet practical, analysis of the critical changes made 
between the 2009 and 2012 editions of the IFC. Key changes are identified then followed by in-depth 
discussion of how the change affects real-world application. Coverage reflects provisions with special 
significance, including new and innovative design ideas and technologies, modern materials and 
methods of construction, and current approaches to safety and stability. (200 pages) 
SOFT COVER #7404S12 

pocketiNTERPS: 2012 IFC This handy pocket-sized guide compiles hundreds of real-world questions from code users and combines them with detailed answers from ICC code experts. A durable cover and spiral binding 
make it easy to use in the field or office. (150 pages) 
SOFT COVER #4412S12 I PDF DOWNLOAD #89SOP277 
FIRE INSPECTOR>S GUIDE: BASED ON THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE@ 
Your ideal pocket-sized resource for effective, accurate, consistent, and complete fire inspections. 
Learn the most important and most Become aware of common hazards and the relevant fire inspection information from most frequently violated safety issues for the fire code. various uses. 
Quickly identify the relevant IFC0 section for Increase fire inspection effectiveness by 
each topic listed. focusing on the most relevant issues. 
Increase the efficiency of fire inspections Increase fire inspection consistency based based on an occupancy-specific format. on a common listing of important subjects. (200 pages) 
SOFT COVER #4401S12 I PDF DOWNLOAD #8748P12 
SUSTAINABLE GREEN DESIGN &: FIREFIGHTING: A FIRE CHIEF>S PERSPECTIVE Author Ronald Spadafora, a 33-year veteran of the FDNY, delivers cutting-edge coverage for developing strategies and tactics to deal with the challenges of energy-saving building materials. This comprehensive book familiarizes readers with sustainable and integrated design concepts and how they relate to the fire service, including topics on sustainable sites, water efficiency, alternative energy, natural refrigerants, light weight construction materials, and indoor environmental quality. This text also features information on new technology such as microturbines, photovoltaic arrays, green roofs, and heliostats, ensuring that responders of all levels are fully prepared to engage in an incident involving a green structure. (181 pages) 
HARD COVER #9601S1 






















